Janardhan Reddy and others
Vs
सर्वकार
[Hon'ble Chief Justice Shri Harilal Kania, Syed Fazal Ali,
Justices Patanjali Sastri, Mukerjea, Das and Chandra Shekhar Aiyar]
Constitution of India, Articles 134, 136, 374 (4) - Special leave from appeal - Judgment of the High Court of Judicature at Hyderabad passed before 26th January 1950 - Application for special leave - - Maintenance - Postponement of application for leave to appeal to the Judicial Committee at Hyderabad to come into force after the coming into force of the new Constitution, Scope of Article 136 - Any court or tribunal in the territory of India "- Interpretation of statutes - Estimation of expected operation - - Right of appeal
Appellate Jurisdiction (Criminal): Criminal Miscellaneous Petitions No. 71 to 73 of 1950.
ডি.এন.Preet (K. B. Asthana, Daniel Latifi, Bhawa Shivcharan Singh and A. S. R. Chari, with him) for the petitioners.
এম.সি.Setalvad, Attorney-General for India and Raja Ram Iyer on behalf of the respondent (G. N. Joshi, with them).
1950. december 14. the judgment of the court was delivered
All the accused have been charged with being members of the Communist Party with the policy of overthrowing the present government of Hyderabad by violence and establishing a communist regime in its place. It is alleged that they had demanded donations for their communist organization and a few villagers who did not comply with their demands were abducted and killed on September 21, 1948. They were charged with various offences, including murder, before a special tribunal set up under the regulations introduced by the এইচ.ই.এইচ. military governor under the authority of the Nizam, and were convicted and sentenced to death on August 9, 13 and 14, 1949, through separate verdicts. The petitioners appealed from those verdicts to the Hyderabad High Court, and the High Court, by its judgments dated December 12, 13 and 14, 1949, respectively, dismissed the appeals. The petitioners applied to the High Court on January 21, 1950, for a certificate to appeal to the Judicial Committee of the State of Hyderabad. It appears that এইচ.ই.এইচ. The Nizam issued a firman on November 23, 1949, stating that the proposed Constitution was suitable for the Government of Hyderabad, India, and that he had adopted it as the Constitution of the State of Hyderabad, one of the States in Part B of the First Schedule. On January 26, 1950, the Constitution of India applied to the Union of India and the States in Part B. The petitions initially filed for the certificate of order to appeal to the Judicial Committee of the Privy Council of the State of Hyderabad, with the permission of the Court, were modified and became petitions under Article 134 of the Constitution of India. A Division Bench of the High Court at Hyderabad considered the petitions and dismissed them on the ground that no such petition was under Article 134 and they further declared that no case was made for a certificate on the merits as sought by the petitioners. The petitioners have now filed their petitions before this Court under Article 136 of the Constitution of India, from the judgments of the High Court dated December 12, 13 and 14, 1949, for special leave to appeal.
(2)......... "
The expression "territory of India" is defined in paragraph 1 with the proviso that: -
"1. the territory of India shall be constituted.
(a) the territories of the States (that is to say the States referred to in Parts A, B and C of the First Schedule),
(b) the areas specified in Part D of the First Schedule, (e.g., the Andaman and Nicobar Islands) and
(c) other areas that may be acquired. "
(1) 54 T.A. 421. (2) [1905] AD 369,
Appeals, in those circumstances, are dismissed as moot.
The appeal was rejected.
Agent for the applicants: আই.এন.Shroff.
The Agent of the Respondent: P. A. Mehta.
The judgment translated into the local language is for limited use and understanding by the litigant in the mother tongue and cannot be used for any other purpose. For all practical and official purposes, the English version of the judgment shall be authentic and shall be applicable for the purposes of operation and enforcement.
