এস.সি.R. Supreme Court Report 759
Chintaman Rao
Vs
State of Madhya Pradesh
Rama Krishna
V.
State of Madhya Pradesh
[Mr. Harilal Kania, Chief Justice, Justices of Mehat Chand Mahajan, Mukherjee, Das and Chandrashekhar Iyer]
Central Provinces and Berar Regulation of Beedi Production (Agricultural Purposes) Act (LXIV of 1948), Section II - 3, 4 - Act to prohibit beedi production in agricultural season - Validity - Fundamental right to carry on trade or business Restriction - Reasonableness of restriction - Test of reasonableness - Jurisdiction of courts to consider whether restriction is reasonable - Constitution of India, 1950, Article 19 (1) (g), 19 (6).
The Central Provinces and Berar Regulation of Production of Beedi (Agricultural Purposes) Act LXIV of 1948, an Act which was in force at the commencement of the Constitution of India, provided that the Deputy Commissioner may by notification designate the time as an agricultural season in respect of such villages as may be specified therein and "the Deputy Commissioner may, by making general orders which he may specify extend to such villages, prohibit the production of beedi during the agricultural season." The Act further provided that no person residing in a particular village in this order could engage himself in the manufacture of beedi during the agricultural season and that no manufacturer shall employ any person for the manufacture of beedi during the said season. "Under the provisions of this Act the Deputy Commissioner issued an order prohibiting all persons residing in a particular village from engaging in the manufacture of beedi during a particular season. The beedi manufacturer and an employee of the beedi factory residing in one of the villages mentioned earlier had filed a writ under Article 32 of the Constitution for a direction of a higher court that, since the Act prohibited the writters from exercising their fundamental right to carry on the trade or business by which they were guaranteed under Article 19 of the Constitution in Clause 1 (6), the Act was void:
DECISION: (1) The purpose of this Act, that is to say, to provide for the supply of sufficient labour for agricultural purposes in the beedi producing areas of the province, may be achieved by enacting legislation restricting the employment of agricultural labourers in beedi production during the agricultural season without completely prohibiting beedi production. since the provisions of the Act had no reasonable relationship.
In view of the purpose, this Act was "not a law imposing reasonable restrictions." within the meaning of Clause 1 (6) in Article 19 of the Constitution and was therefore void.
2) The law authorising the imposition of restrictions in respect of agricultural labour cannot be held to be valid in so far as the lawful precedent can be stated because the language applied was sufficiently broad to encompass both within the bounds of constitutionally sanctioned legislation and the restrictions affecting rights, and unless the possibility of its application for purposes not permitted by the Constitution can be ruled out, it must be held to be wholly void.
The phrase "reasonable restriction" implies that the restriction imposed on an individual in the enjoyment of rights should not be arbitrary or excessive in nature, beyond what is necessary in the public interest. The term "reasonable" implies prudence, care and review, i.e., a choice of process that logic dictates. A law that arbitrarily or excessively attacks rights cannot be said to possess the quality of reasonableness and unless it strikes the proper balance between the freedoms provided for in Article 19 (1) (g) and the social controls permitted by Article 19, Clause 1 (6) of the Constitution, it must be held to lack that quality.
It also held that the determination by the legislature of what constitutes a reasonable restriction is not final and conclusive. The Supreme Court has the power to consider whether the restrictions imposed by the legislature are reasonable within the meaning of Article 19. Clause 1 (6) of Article 19 of the Constitution and to declare the law void if in its opinion the restrictions are not reasonable.
Basic field: Petitions 78 and 79 of 1950.
Application for writ of High Court direction under Article 32 of the Constitution of India.
G. N. Joshi for the petitioners.
S. M. Sikri, for the Respondent.
Nov. 8, 1950. Judgment of the Court Delivered
J. Mahajan, these two petitions have been made by an owner and an employee of the beedi manufacturing company in Sagar district (State of Madhya Pradesh) respectively for the exercise of fundamental rights conferred by Article 19 (1) (g) of the Constitution of India.It is argued that the law in force in the State authorises the prohibition of beedi production in certain villages, including beedi.
SCR Supreme Court Report 761
where the petitioners reside is inconsistent with the provisions of Part III of the Constitution and is consequently void
The Central Provinces and Berar Beedi (Agricultural Purposes) Production Control Act, LXIV was passed on 19 October 1948 and was the law in force in the state at the commencement of the Constitution. This law states in sections 3 and 4:
"3. The Deputy Commissioner may fix a time limit as the agricultural season in respect of such villages as may be specified by notification.
4. (1) The Deputy Commissioner may, by general order, which shall extend to such villages as he may specify, prohibit the manufacture of beedi during the agricultural season.
(2) No person residing in a village specified in this order shall engage himself in beedi production during the agricultural season and no manufacturer shall engage any person for beedi production during the said season. "
On June 13, 1950, the Deputy Commissioner of Sagar issued an order under the provisions of the Act prohibiting all persons residing in specified villages from engaging in the manufacture of beedi. On June 19, 1950, these two petitions under Article 32 of the Constitution were presented to this court to challenge the validity of the order as it prejudicially affected the petitioners "right to freedom of profession and trade. While the petitions were pending, the season mentioned in the order dated June 13 came to an end. A fresh order was issued on September 29 with the same conditions for the next agricultural season from October 8 to November 18, 1950. This application was also challenged in a supplementary petition.
Article 19 (1) (g) reads as follows:
"All citizens shall have the right to practice any profession or carry on any occupation, trade or business.
762 The Supreme Court Report [1950]
The Article guarantees freedom of occupation and business.The freedom guaranteed herein is, however, subject to the limitation conditions imposed by Article 19 (6 ).This Article is contained in these terms:
"Nothing in subsection (g) of the foregoing section shall affect the operation of any existing law in so far as the State imposes, in the general public general interest, reasonable restrictions on the exercise of the rights conferred by the foregoing subsection, or prevents the making of any law, and, in particular, nothing in the foregoing subsection shall affect the operation of any existing law in so far as it determines or empowers any authority to determine or empower any authority to determine the professional or technical qualifications necessary to carry on any occupation trade or business.
The issue at issue in these applications is whether the Central Provinces and Berar Act LXVI of 1948 falls within the scope of this savings clause or is in addition to the repealed provisions.
The learned counsel for the petitioners contends that the impugned Act does not impose reasonable restrictions on the exercise of the fundamental rights in the interest of the general public but is wholly negative. It is necessary to examine the impugned Act and some of its provisions in order to judge the validity of this dispute. It is stated in the Preamble to the Act that it has been enacted to provide for the supply of adequate labour for agricultural work in beedi producing areas. Sections 3 and 4 mentioned above empower the Deputy Commissioner to prohibit the production of beedi during the agricultural season. Any contravention of these provisions is made punishable by Section 7 of the Act, the punishment being imprisonment for a term which may extend to six months or with fine or with both. It was enacted with a view to facilitate more food production operations and to bring significant areas of fallow land under ploughing.
The question for the decision is whether the law is arbitrary under the guise of protecting the interests of the public
SCR Supreme Court Report 763
interferes with private business and imposes an unreasonable and unnecessary prohibition of regulation on lawful occupation; in other words, whether the absolute limitation of carrying on the business of beedi production within the agricultural season amounts to a prohibition of reasonable regulation on all of the fundamental rights referred to in Article 19 (1) (g) of the Constitution. Unless the law provisions are shown to be reasonably related to this objective, the right to freedom of occupation and business cannot be abridged.
The phrase "reasonable restriction" implies that the restriction imposed on an individual in the enjoyment of rights should not be of an arbitrary or excessive nature, beyond what is necessary in the public interest. The term "reasonable" implies prudent care and review, i.e., the choice of a procedure which reason dictates. A law which arbitrarily or excessively attacks rights cannot be said to possess the quality of reasonableness and unless it strikes the proper balance between the freedoms provided for in Article 19 (1) (g) and the social controls permitted by Article 19 (6) clause, it must be held to lack that quality.
Clause (6) in the last paragraph specifies certain instances of the nature of the restrictions which the Constitution-makers had in mind and which have the quality of justification. They provide a guideline for the interpretation of the clause and explain the extent and nature of the restrictions which may be imposed by regulation on the freedoms provided for in paragraph (g). The Act completely suspends the right referred to in paragraph 19 (1) (g) during the agricultural season, and such suspension may lead to such displacement of industry as may prove its ultimate destruction. The object of this statute is to provide for the supply of sufficient labour for agricultural purposes in the beedi-producing areas of the province, and by enacting legislation restricting the employment of agricultural labourers in beedi production during the agricultural season.
764 Supreme Court Reports [1950]
Even in terms of time, a restriction may be reasonable if it amounts to a regulation of working hours in a business. While such a law would restrict the area of employment of persons for beedi production and regulate industrial working hours, there would not be a complete cessation of manufacturing business and may be covered by clause (6). However, the law has no rational relation to the effect of a favorable view, but its scope is so intense that it far exceeds that purpose. The provisions of the law are not merely over litigation requirements, but the language used prohibits the beedi manufacturer from employing any person in his business, regardless of where that person may be located. In other words, a beedi manufacturer residing in this territory may not import labor from neighboring places in the district or province or from outside the province. Externally, such a prohibition is of an arbitrary nature, as it has nothing to do with the object for which the law seeks to acquire it and cannot be said to constitute a reasonable restriction on the exercise of rights. Also this Constitution provides for prohibiting all persons residing in notified villages from engaging in beedi production during the agricultural season. It cannot be denied that these villages will be inhabited by a number of weak and handicapped persons, several children, old women, and small shopkeepers who are unable to use agricultural labor. All such persons are prohibited by law from engaging in beedi production and are thus being deprived of their livelihood. It is a matter of common knowledge that there are certain classes of people living in each village who are not engaged in agricultural work. In their leisure time they and their women and children engage themselves in the beedi business to supplement their income. There seems to be no reason to prohibit them from carrying on this occupation. As the law
SCR Supreme Court Report 765
As it stands, not only does it compel those who may be engaged in agricultural work not to go into other occupations, but it also prohibits persons who have no connection or relation to agricultural work from engaging in the business of beedi-making and thus obtaining their livelihood. In our opinion, these provisions of the Statute cannot be cited in advance as reasonable restrictions on the rights of the applicants and, therefore, are not consistent with the provisions of Part III of the Statute's Constitution. Even the Statute can be said to authorize the imposition of restrictions in respect of agricultural labour. Such legislation cannot be said to be valid because the language used is sufficiently broad to encompass both the extent of the enactment of the Constitutionally sanctioned legislation and the restrictions affecting the rights. Unless the possibility of its application for purposes not permitted by the Constitution can be ruled out, it must be held to be wholly unenforceable.
Mr. Sikri, for the Government of Madhya Pradesh, claimed that the legislature of Madhya Pradesh was well suited to the rationale of the restrictions imposed by the Act, that the legislature alone knew the situation prevailing in the State and alone could say what kind of legislation could effectively achieve the ends in view and would help in promoting more food and bring the fallow land under the plough and that sitting at this great distance this court could not judge by its own yardstick whether the restrictions were reasonable or not to be imposed in the circumstances of the case. This argument is contrary to the express provisions of the Constitution. The determination by the legislature of what constitutes reasonable restrictions is not final or conclusive; it is subject to the supervision of this court.
766 Supreme Court Reports [1950]
That the impugned Act does not stand the test of reasonableness and is, therefore, of ineffectual consequence, the orders issued by the Deputy Commissioner on June 13, 1950 and September 26, 1950 are null, void and infructuous. We, therefore, direct the respondents; not to invoke the provisions contained in Section 4 of the Act in any manner against the petitioners. The petitioners shall bear the cost of these proceedings in two petitions at will.
The petition has been allowed.
For applicants number 78 and 79, the representative is Rajinder Narain.
P A Mehta, representative of respondent no 78 and 79.
. "
