Good red vs. Kingdom
[Minister Justice Sri Harrel Kaniya, Justice Sayed Fazl Ali, Justice at Mehr Rana, Justice Erhana Air and Justice Vivian Bos]
Punjab Business Workers Law, 1940, Article 2. (G), 7, 16 - employee-sellers - Article 2-(A) of the sale of sales-in-laws on the day off.
Article 7. (1) The Punjab industrial worker law, 1940, fixed in 1943, has the condition that “each shop will be closed on a closed day, other than the one given by the law”.
According to Article 2.2A (J) and the management of the management will have nothing to do with the law for the family of the employer and the family of the employer.
He can't be found guilty.
The Court's decision is --( i) the provincial government that sells an object under the 2.2th grade, controls the location, date and rules of law, and Article 7 of the Act was not an understatement (Altra's brothers); it could be brought under the terms of the 27th line of "good labor conditions of the labour of the labour of the labour;"
Article 2 (J) did not protect the appealer because he was found guilty not to sell by the son but to keep the appealer open on the day of the closure of the shop :
Despite being the director of the store, Article 2 (I) himself was not entitled to leave under Article 2 (I) because the law needs to separate him from his power and duty manager for the purpose of the law.
The criminal appeal field: Criminal appeals No. 11 1950.
The Court of Simla Justice ('Judikecher') High Court of the Criminal Court is on April 10, 1950, under Section 134 (CE) of the Indian Constitution and its ruling.
Kundan red Orora for the host.
S.N. Choit for the North.
1951. May 23. court ruling
The Justice Bos – it is a criminal appeal to the Punjab commercial employee law, 1940, under Article 16 (1) of the amendments in 1943.
The appealer, who owns and runs a store in Firuzpur's cantonment area, means he does not have a "charge", but helps him to run a store, divides the shop into two sections, one of which, in another, the stationary items.
According to Article 7(1) of the Constitutional Law, "with this law, every store... will be closed on closed days."
& Sub-geal says that-
"The choice of a closed day will be with the owner of a store... and the authorities will have to inform them."
The prosecutor likes the following: Monday's Hubdasheri section and Saturdays were selected to close the stationary departments, and gave the relevant information to the authorities.
On Monday 17 May 17, 1948, the appealsman sold a tin to his son’s shop owner from the Habardashery Department, who was personally involved in the sale of an appeal day for the Hungarian Department, and therefore under Article 7 of the appeals Article 7. The judge decided that he was guilty of violating the law on the day of his death sentence and that he was guilty of violating the law on Monday's 7th day, and that he was charged with "on-day sentence" (in the sentence was filed with the law) to the court, and that the prosecutor’s sentence was "incense" was "incensed up against the law."
The dissident lawyer in favor of the petitioner claims that Article 7 of the Law, because it does not read anything under the Indian government's jurisdiction of the laws, under the provincial list of standards of the standards of the 1935s, which, according to us, may be under Article 27 or 3 of the list.
The list item No. 2. Explains “Constitution and Trade in the province”. In our opinion, under a provincial government, it can control certain goods, places, dates and methods. For example, it can only be selected for explosives or other dangerous substances to sell explosives, whether directly or in certain areas, at certain times, and at a time of time.
The topic of the list of topics for the list 3 can also be brought under the terms of "the conditions of labor labor;" which are common and all stores; that are employed as well as those which belong to the owners and their families.
"2-k. This law doesn't apply to anything--
*
( b) How can we imitate Jesus ’ example of self - sacrificing love?
Family of the employer."
The argument was that the salesman was not affected by the law, so if he didn't sell the store, he could not be able to sell it. Similarly, by way of appeal, the owner, who was in charge of a manager, was in power.
Then it was argued that if a manager is not able to influence the law, the appealer in power cannot be forced to close the store under Article 7; that is also wrong.
Finally, it was argued that the law was intended to improve the status of working conditions in the store. So it cannot be applied to shops where no laborers are appointed, especially when the family of "defendent" could not be completely removed from the law.
The appeal failed and was dismissed.
The appeal is dismissed.
The petitioner's favor: the Bidyal Sea.
For the answers: Ay Mehta.
---------
For the limited use of the local language and the succinct verdict, it cannot be used in the mother's language and in any other purpose, in all practical and public purposes, the English version of the verdict will be published and applied for effective and effective purposes.
