Ramjilal
Vs
The Income Tax Officer, Mohindergarh
[Chief Justice Sri Harilal Kania, Syed Fazal Ali,
Justices Patanjali Shastri, Mookerjee and Das]
Indian Constitution Articles 14, 31 (1), 32, 265 - General Provisions for the Unity of the States of Patiala and East Punjab (Administration) Ordinance (XVI of 2005) - Unity of the States - Law relating to Income-tax - Uniform law introduced in all States with effect from August 20, 1948, - Provisions that pending proceedings be governed by existing laws - Assessment at different rates in different States - Equality of law - Violation of fundamental rights - Assessment of income earned before August 20, 1948 - Fundamental right not to be deprived of property under the authority of law - Whether applicable to taxation - Articles 31 (1) and 265 Scope - Application for protection against taxation laws under Article 32 - Maintenance
Section 3 (1) of the Union General Provisions (Administration) Ordinance for the State of Patiala and East Punjab (No. XVI of 2005) which came into force on February 2, 1949 and was re-enacted in Section 3 of an earlier Ordinance which came into force on August 20, 1948, provided that from the appointed day (i.e., August 20, 1948) all laws in force in the State of Patiala shall apply to the territories of the said Union subject to such modifications as may be necessary, provided that all proceedings pending in the courts or before other contracting authorities immediately before August 20, 1948 shall be disposed of in accordance with the law governing such activities in force in the State of such agreement. The Contracting State, Kapurthala, had an Act of Income Tax in force on the said date, the rate of tax payable under which was less than the rate payable under the Patiala Income Tax Act, and another Contracting State, Nabha which has no Income Tax Act at all. For the account of the year ended April 12, 1948, Kapurthala
The assessees of the state were assessed at the lower rate prescribed by the Kapurthala Income Tax Act, as per the provisions of Section 3 of the Ordinance on Pending Proceedings, and the Nabha
The assessees were assessed at a higher rate prescribed by the Patiala Act as there was no Income Tax Act in Nhava on August 20, 1948.
And hence no income tax proceedings were pending in Nabha. The petitioner who was an assessee residing in Nabha and who was assessed under the Patiala Act for a writ in the nature of 32 of the Constitution quashed the assessment of certiorari on the ground (i) that he is entitled to the fundamental right of equality before the law and Article 14 of the Constitution guaranteed by the Article denies the equal protection of the law since he was assessed at a higher rate than the way the assessees of Kapurthala were assessed, (ii) that, since the Ordinance enacting the Patiala Income Tax Act in Nabha was enacted on August 20, 1948, it cannot operate retrospectively and authorise the levy of tax on the income accumulated during the year ended April 12, 1948 and for that reason he was threatened with the violation of the fundamental right guaranteed by Article 31 (1) of the Constitution that no one shall be deprived of his property in accordance with the security of the law:
Ordered, (i) that if there was any discrimination, between the assessees of Kapurthala and Nabha, that was not brought about by the Ordinance but according to the circumstances that there was no Income Tax Act in Nabha and consequently no case of assessment was stayed in Nabha assessment; and that in any case where the proceedings pending the provision should be terminated in accordance with the law applicable at the time when the rights or liabilities were collected and the proceedings commenced, it was a reasonable law founded on a reasonable classification of assessees as permissible under the Equal Protection Clause;
(ii) That, there is a special provision in Article 265 of the Constitution that no tax shall be levied or collected except by authority of law, Clause (1) Article 31 is to be construed as relating to deprivation of property instead of imposition or collection of tax, Article 265 The right conferred by the Constitution is not a right conferred by Part III of the Constitution, it cannot be enforced under Article 32.
Original Judgment: Petition No. 135 of 1950
Charter in the nature of a writ and application under Article 32 Clause of the Constitution for injunction.
Dr. Tek Chand (Hardyal Hardy and Jindra Lal, with him) on behalf of the petitioner.
এম.সি.Setalvad, Attorney-General for India (S. M. Sikri, with him) on behalf of the respondent.
1951. january 12. the judgment of the court was delivered
By Justice Das - This is a petition under Article 32 of the Constitution for a proper order protecting what he claims to be his fundamental right guaranteed by Articles 14 and 31. This is said to be a test case, for his decision, we said, depends on the rights of numerous other persons whose interests are the same as those of the petitioner.
There is no serious dispute as to the factual material for the purpose of this petition. they are summarized as follows: On May 5, 1948, the then rulers of the eight Punjab states, including Patiala and Nabha, with the consent and guarantee of the Government of India, entered into an agreement and agreed to unite their territories into a common state called Patiala, with an executive, legislative and judiciary. And the Union of East Punjab States was hereinafter called PEPSU. By Article III (6) of the Agreement the then ruler of Patiala became the first President or Raj Pramukh of the Governing Council and he held the office during his lifetime. The following is the text of Article vi of the Agreement: -
"(1) The Ruler of each Contracting State shall, as soon as may be, and in any case not later than August 20, 1948, hand over the administration of his State to the Head of State, and thereupon,
(a) all rights, authority and jurisdiction belonging to the Ruler or which shall be exercisable to the Union vested in the Government of the Conciliating State concerned or thereafter only by or under this Agreement or as otherwise provided by the Constitution;
(b) all the duties and obligations of the Ruler relating to or incidental to the Government of the Contracting State vest in the Union and shall be performed by it;
(c) all the assets and liabilities of the Contracting State shall be the assets and liabilities of the Union,
(d) The military forces of the Contracting State, if any, shall become the military forces of the Union. "
To constitute a Constituent Assembly by reference to Article X which shall provide for the framing of a single type of Constitution for the Union within the Constitution of India and the framework thereof. This Constituent Assembly shall also act as the interim legislature of the Union until an elected legislature is constituted. The provisions of clause (2) of the said Article are as follows: -
"The Head of State shall have power to make and promulgate ordinances for the peace and good government of the Union or any part thereof, until a Constitution made by the Constituent Assembly comes into operation after the consent of the Head of State has been obtained. Ordinances made shall, for a period not exceeding six months from the date of their promulgation, have the same force of law as laws passed by the Constituent Assembly; provided that any such ordinance may be regulated or repealed by any such law."
This Union was inaugurated on 15th July, 1948 and the Raj Pradhan then took over the administration of the various Contracting States. The administration of the State of Nabha was taken over by the Raj Pradhan on 20th August, 1948. On the same day the Raj Pradhan, in exercise of the powers vested in him, promulgated an Ordinance (No. 1 of 2005) called the Patiala and East Punjab States Union (Administration) Ordinance, 2005. The following provisions of this Ordinance are relevant for our purposes:
"1. (2) It shall extend to the territories as well as to the Contracting States incorporated therein and from the date on which the administration of any of the said States or States is or has been placed at the disposal of the Head of State.
2.
3. As soon as the administration of any Contracting State as aforesaid is taken over by the Raj Pradhan, all laws, ordinances, acts, rules, regulations, circulars, hidayat and hirmanas-e-shahi have become the fountainhead of law in the State of Patiala. Necessary changes shall apply to the territories of the said State on the date of commencement of this Ordinance and all laws in force in such Contracting State before that date shall be repealed:
Provided that proceedings of any nature pending on such date in the courts or offices of any such Contracting State, notwithstanding anything contained in this Ordinance or any other Ordinance, shall be disposed of in accordance with the law governing such proceedings existing in any such Contracting State in force for that period. "
For the purposes of the adaptation of laws, etc., in force under section 6 and inter alia, any reference to these laws, etc., for the State of Patiala and the like shall be construed as a reference to the State of the Union... A notification (No. 35, dated 27-5-05 11-9-1948) was issued under the signature of the Revenue Secretary that the Patiala Income-tax Act, 2001 and the rules thereunder have been in force in respect of the various Contracting States with effect from the 20th day of August, 1948, thereby repealing the acts or laws in force in favour of those States before that date, except in pending proceedings. It may be mentioned here that prior to that date there was no law in the State of Nabha imposing income-tax on the subjects of that State. On the 14th day of November, 1948, the Commissioner of Income-tax issued a notification (No. 4, dated 29-7-2005) intimating that persons belonging to the Contracting States of Nabha and Nalagarh shall be assessed for income-tax under the Patiala Income-tax Act, 2001. It was pointed out that persons belonging to that State whose income has reached the taxable limit "should henceforth be regularly and properly accounted for by the Income-tax Department for the purpose of audit." On the 2nd day of February, 1949, Ordinance 1 of 2005 was repealed and replaced by Ordinance No. XVI of 2005 issued by the Raj Pradhan and called the Patiala and East Punjab States Union General Provision (Administration) Ordinance, 2006. Section 3 (1) reads as follows:
"3. (1) As from the appointed day, all laws and rules, regulations, bye-laws and notifications made thereunder and all other provisions having the force of law, except such changes as may be necessary on that day within the State of Patiala shall apply to the territories of the Union and all laws in force in the other Contracting States shall cease to have effect before that day;
Provided that all cases, appeals, revisions, appeals, reviews, death sentences and other proceedings, or any of them, civil or criminal or revenue, pending in court and before the authorities of any Contracting State, notwithstanding anything contained in this Ordinance, shall be disposed of in accordance with the law governing proceedings in force in such Contracting State immediately before the appointed day. "
Section (2) (a) defines "appointed day" as the 5th day of Bhadon, 2005, corresponding to August 20, 1948. There was a section for a similar adaptation to Section 6 of Ordinance 1 of 2005. There was another ordinance to be mentioned, namely, Ordinance No. 1 of 2006 called the Finance Ordinance which was promulgated on April 13, 1949, which came into force on that date. Section 5 of that ordinance introduced several amendments to the Patiala Income Tax Act, 2001. It reworked Sections 3 and 34 of that Act and introduced Section 23B as a new section. Section 6 of this ordinance runs as follows:
"6. begins on Pahela Baishakh, 2006 of the year for assessment, i.e., CHAT, in respect of accounting of income, profits and gains of the previous year ending on the last day of 2005.
(a) Income-tax shall be levied at the rate specified in Part-I of the Second Schedule to this Ordinance, and
(b) The rate of super tax shall, for the purposes of section 55 of the Patiala Income-tax Act, 2001, be specified in Part II of the Second Schedule to this Ordinance. "
In this situation, the information leading to the current application must be considered.
The petitioner is a resident of Ateli in Mohindergarh district which is now in Pepsu but which was earlier a part of Nabha State. The petitioner has been running his business in Ateli for several years in the name of Raghunath Rai Ram Parsad. He has never paid any income tax as no such tax has been imposed by any law in Nabha State. On October 20, 1949, the petitioner was served a notice under section 22 (2) and 38 of the Patiala Income Tax Act, 2001, requiring him to file a return for the income tax year 2006 (13-4-1949 to 12-4-1950) disclosing his income during the previous year (13-4-1948 to 12-4-1949). The petitioner, on December 4, 1949, filed his return for the year 2006 and was assessed income tax on February 14, 1950. On May 23, 1950, the petitioner received a notice under section 34 calling upon him to file his return for the year ending on the last day of the 2005 chat, i.e., from 13-4-1948 to 12-4-1949. In this return he had to mention his previous year's income, namely, 2004 (i.e., from 13-4-1947 to 12-4-1948). It appears that the petitioner along with other assessees of Ateli and Kanina submitted an application to the Income Tax Officer on July 9, 1950, not to proceed with the assessment for the year 2005 but on July 13, 1950, the Income Tax Officer assessed him under section 22 (4) read with section 34 (4) of the Income Tax Act. Along with other assessees similarly situated the petitioner approached the Commissioner of Income Tax and the Central Board of Revenue, New Delhi, but without any success. No formal appeal under the Patiala Income Tax Act seems to have been filed by the petitioner against the assessment for the two years 2005 and 2006. On August 10, 1950, the petitioner filed his present application before this Court under Article 32 of the Constitution to issue a writ in the nature of a writ of certiorari to quash the assessment and other ancillary remedies of the applicant's income collected in 2004 and 2005. During the pendency of this application the Income Tax authorities issued a notice under section 46 stating that a penalty would be imposed in case of non-payment of tax.
The contention of the petitioner in the first place is that he has been deprived of the fundamental right to equality of law guaranteed to him by Article 14 of the Constitution and deprived of the equal protection of law. His allegations have been formulated in paragraphs 10 and 11 of his petition It is stated that when the people of Kapurthala belonging to PEPSU have been asked to pay income tax for the period prior to August 20, 1948, at the rate prescribed earlier by the Kapurthala Income Tax Act which was lower than the rate prescribed by the Patiala Income Tax Act, 2001, the people of Nabha who were not required to pay any income tax before August 20, 1948, have been made liable to pay the higher rate in Patiala and such discrimination constitutes an offence against the provisions of Article 14. This allegation is rebutted by paragraph 10 of the affidavit of Sardar Gurbax Singh, Inspector of Income Tax (Income Tax), New Delhi, who was formerly Commissioner, Income Tax, Punjab and PEPSU, which has been filed in opposition to the present petition. Therein it is stated that for the assessment of 2005, the assessees whose cases were pending in Kapurthala were assessed on August 20, 1948, at the rate prescribed under the Kapurthala Income Tax Act but the provisions of the Patiala Income Tax Act for the assessment year 2006 and the rates prescribed thereunder were uniformly applied to all areas of PEPSU including Kapurthala. This allegation which has not been rebutted in the affidavit filed in reply to the petitioner must be accepted as correct. The assessment of the assessees of Kapurthala for the year 2005 at the old Kapurthala rate was clearly made under the provisions of Section 3 of Ordinance No. 1 of 2005, which was reproduced in terms of Section 3 (1) of Ordinance No. XVI 2006 and both required that all pending proceedings be completed in accordance with the law applicable to all the proceedings when they were initiated. There was no assessment case pending against any of the NAVA assessees on August 20, 1948, as there was no Income Tax Act in NAVA before that date and, therefore, there could not have been any occasion to complete any pending proceedings against any of such assessees. In these premises, there can be no protest by them as to the scope of discrimination. The discrimination, if any, was not brought about by the two ordinances, but by the circumstances that there was no Income Tax Act in NAVA and consequently no case of assessment pending against any of the NAVA assessees. Provisions that in any case the pending proceedings should be terminated in accordance with the law applicable at the time when the rights or liabilities accrue and the proceedings commence is a reasonable law founded on a reasonable classification of assessees as permitted under the Equal Protection Clause and to which no exception can be made. In our opinion the allegation of violation of fundamental rights under Article 14 is not at all well founded.
Appearing in support of the petition, Dr Tek Chand subsequently claimed that the administration of Nabha State was taken over by the Raj Pradhan only on August 20, 1948 and the Patiala Act was brought along with the Patiala Income Tax Act, 2001 on August 20, 1948 and since then, the assessment of tax on the income of the petitioner which was collected prior to August 20, 1948, is totally illegal and not authorised by the said Ordinance and the State so as to illegally assess the attack on the fundamental right of the petitioner for property guaranteed by Article 31 (1) of the Constitution was frightening.
Article 31 (1) provides as follows:
"(1) No person may be deprived of his property except by authority of law."
It will be noted that Section (1) reproduces, without the words "in British India," subsection (1) of Section 299 of the Government of India Act, 1935. The reference is made to Article 265 which deals with Chapter XII, I, "Money." That Article provides that no tax may be levied or collected except by authority of law. There was no similar provision in a similar chapter of the Government of India Act, 1935. If the amount of tax collected amounts to deprivation of property within the meaning of Article 31 (1), then again there is no point in making a separate provision in Article 265. Therefore, Section (1) of Article 31 must be treated as relating to deprivation of property rather than imposition or collection of tax, otherwise Article 265 becomes wholly redundant. The power to tax in the United States is held to be distinct from the exercise of police powers or eminent domain. Our Constitution has clearly held the payment of tax to be distinct from the compulsory acquisition of property and has made independent provisions providing protection against taxation without authority of law. When Dr. Tek Chand was asked if this was not in the right position, he did not advance any reasoned or convincing answer to refute his conclusion. In our opinion, the protection against imposition and collection of tax without authority of law comes directly from Article 265 and is not protected by Article (1) of Article 31. Article 265, not being in Chapter III of the Constitution, does not provide for its protection as a fundamental right which can be enforced by an application to this Court under Article 32. It is not intended to say that the right protected by Article 265 cannot be enforced. It can certainly be enforced by taking appropriate measures. What we mean to say is that this application in so far as it is intended to be established in this Court by Article 32 read with Article 31 (1) is misconceived and will certainly fail.
Dr. Tek Chand's entire argument was founded on the premise that protection against imposition and collection of tax without authority of law was guaranteed by Article 31 (1) and his attempt was to hold that the PEPSU ordinances were and could not, or could not, be made in law on a correct interpretation of them. to impose any income tax retrospectively, that the income tax officer had wrongly assessed the tax on the income earned before August 20, 1948, in an incorrect view of the law, and thereby threatened to deprive the applicant of property instead of the authority of the law. The view we have taken, namely, that protection against imposition or collection of tax without authority of law is protected by Article 265 and not by Article 31 (1), does not really arise from the questions raised by Dr. Tek Chand and they need not express any opinion in this application. These questions can only be raised in appropriate proceedings and not in an application under Article 32. In our judgment this application fails on the general ground that no fundamental right of the applicant under Article 14 or Article 31 (1) has been infringed and we accordingly dismissed the application with costs.
The appeal was rejected.
Agent for the appellant: Nainit Lal.
The Agent of the Respondent: P. A. Mehta.
The judgment translated into the local language is for limited use and understanding by the litigant in the mother tongue and cannot be used for any other purpose. For all practical and official purposes, the English version of the judgment shall be authentic and shall be applicable for the purposes of operation and enforcement.
