The stars and the others.
versus
West Bengal State
Sir Harial Kaniya Chief Justice, Sayed Fazal Ali,
Mangoali is the Scriptures, the Mukherjee, the slave, and
Ayeyar Justice of the Moon!
The Indian Constitution, 1950, Article 22 (5 - Standbacks) is responsible for providing reasons as soon as possible - 15 days later - 4 months after the petition “reference reason” - the right to be given as soon as possible - because the legitimacy of the detainment is unclear - and inconsequential reasons - first given the delivery and later on - on the same date to several persons - the legitimacy of the detention order.
A large number of people were detained under the Bengol Criminal Law, which was challenged by the High Court of Justice, which was passed on February 2650 and ordered by the same law on the same day because of their detention on March 14 and that they were already detained on July 14 because of their "responsibility" because of their refusal to remeditate or because they refused to comply with the court.
The decision is: In view of the large cases faced by the Kaniya Chief Justice, Fazi Ali, Mukherjeri, and the court of current Sheikh - especially in February 1950, it would not be mentioned earlier that Article 2 (25) did not allow lawmakers to report "as soon as possible."
(i) It is not possible to assume that the article 22 (5) has not been given the "almost opportunity" for applicants to apply, only 16 July and 222 were made more detailed and more information on applicants because of the following connections (even though they were described as "a solid basis"), only the key points of March 14 were given.
(i) Not only because it's unclear but because it's not a foundation and therefore it's not enough to convince the authorities; a "spoken" foundation doesn't stand on the same basis as the non-percepted foundation, which does not have a connection with the government's satisfaction;
(iv) The government's satisfaction is not due to the court's examination; their rightness can be tested by the court to allow the detained person to represent soon, but only from the perspective.
The decision also decided: The huge number of new detentions according to the judge’s slaves do not indicate bad trust in the authorities because the authorities have already applied their thoughts to each prisoner's suspicious activity and were satisfied that they were required to stop them from doing injustice.
The State of Bombay vs. Saram Srihar Dhiupy follows the peg 167.
The criminal appeal field: (The case is 245) of the Court of Kolkata and ordered by the Indian Constitution is 132 (232 in paragraph1).
The app was for the applicants and A.C. Khayshu Sheikh's Mukherjee (Aruth Kumar Dut and S.N. Mukherjeeri).
M. C. S. S. S., Attorney-J., (B. Sen, with him).
The verdict by the Chief Justice of Kazakhstan, Fazl Ali, Mukherjere and the Justice Justice Justice Justice Justice Justice Justice of Kataya Chief Justice and Das are the rulings.
The Kaniya Chief Justice: This is an appeal under Article 1,32 of the Constitution of India.
The 214 Noble Court reports [1951]
The High Court of Kolkata rejected the petition of the prosecutors of Hebias Corpas, a petition which was issued on February 266 in all cases under the Free Detention Act 1950, and the reasons for the detention were issued on March 30, 1950, and in reference to one of them:
You're being detained under the sub-regulation order under the Article 3 of the Law, 1950 (IV) of the Law, (i) which contains Article 3 of the Law (c) of the Law for Deserving (i) for detention, for the following reasons:
(1) You're assisting the Indian Communist Party’s activities, along with its volunteers, which is intended to illegal the government under Article 16 of the Indian Criminal Code (NCIV), and to use deadly weapons, robbery, and weapons and explosives to protect you and this is how it aims to prevent you from doing so.
As a member of the C.P.I.E. in the Kissan Front, you created problems between farmers in Haoky district and tempted them to spread corruption and violence:
And thus the public order is a bad act to protect the general:
As a C.P.I activist, you tried to create problems between people of Tramway and other workers in Kolkata and you're at the university hall and in other places you've actually encouraged them to do their violence and injustice; and thus have helped people to deal with public care.
On the 14th of July, 1650, the West Bengal government has already provided a continuation of the base presented on March 14, 1550 for applicants, with a sample on the condition of the following conditions:
"14 March, 1950, 6163 HS commands are already given because of the reasons you're being informed of your detention," as follows:
As Secretary of the Union of the Bengil Chitkasdur, the Federation of Martyl Employez, a member of the Union's Executive Committee (PIP.I.S.S.S.S.S.S.) organized a campaign against the government on July 22, 1948, you have led a march and have been treating people in a way that is harmful.
For the first reason, these “constitution reasons” were applied in individual cases. The applicants applied to the criminal act section 491 and issued a rule on top of every case on July 250 in the West of the 64th. The second sentence was issued to the Supreme Court of the 20th.
"On July 14, 1950, the reasons given under order are already known, as you are told the following reasons for your detention:-
In a meeting held at Kolkata Tramway University University Institute under the WP on March 19, 1947, you threatened to call for a disaster that was mentioned earlier on March 20th and you said that if the authorities tried to restart the trim services, you and your friends would not let down and cut down the tram lines.
On June 13, 1948, you chaired and spoke at a meeting under the oversight of the Student Federation (C.P.I.D. controlled by the Federation).
“Reaching the ban on the Communist Party of India and its spokesman for “freedom”.”
After considering the full case of the High Court, the appeal for the appeal was dropped and the appealer appealed to us.
In the high court, on behalf of the applicants, it was first argued that communication was not compatible with India's constitution on March 14 (5), because those reasons were "not quickly released".
The appealers were then asked on behalf of the appeal that, according to Article 22 of the Constitution and Article 7 of the Practivation Act, the lawmaker was given the right to law enforcement, which was not allowed to act immediately.
SCR Top Court Report 2117
When the authorities sent their second order to appealrs on July 16, 1950, they described it as "remixed reasons" and "the full basis of your detention." These words were argued that these contacts were based on an additional basis which the detainees were charged with and that they did not follow in Article 22 (25). The reason why the authorities were supposed to be able to detain before the authorities. That's the reason why they should be able to get involved is because of the requirements for access to the new authority.
Based on and so it's absurd to keep this connection as the response to the question that was made later on. These details show that they weren't aware of the authorities when they sent contact on March 14.
Then it was argued that the foundation could not be considered either a base of vagueness and therefore they could not be sufficient to convince the authorities. We are no longer allowed to add anything to what we said in the verdict at the 26th century.
The foundation for both trials should be the same. As often as one is said, a person can be satisfied on the same basis, but the other may not be on the same basis, however, this side is not for court decision in view of the words used under the law.
In each case, the foundation that the government provided for its first order is enough to determine that although the first foundation is common to all the applicants, the second base is different in most cases, in view of the letter that was sent to him in March 1450, the High Court considered each appeal case unsurprisingly because they said that they did not violate every case they had to give the person an opportunity to represent him on March 14 and next month through communication.
The appeal, Justice - the appeal was made in the 1950 case with No.2 (the State of Bombay vs. Ram Sri Dhiupya) because the main question was the same because the verdict I published today doesn't succeed and I agree that it should be dropped.
The petition has raised a similar question by 100 prisoners against a bench order by Judge Das. Kolkata High Court.
2020 Top Court Reports [1951]
The appeal, raised by the detained persons in Bombay state's appeal, was an additional issue. The appeal was that a large number of fresh detention orders indicate that the authorities could not apply their mind to each separate case.
The appeal was dismissed.
The representative of the application, PK.
Representative to the North, Pi Ke Bos.
".
