Arjun Singh aka Puran
Vs
Kartar Singh and others
[Syed Fazal Ali, Mr. Mukerjea and Mr. Chandrashekhar Aiyar, Hon. Justices.]
Code of Civil Procedure, 1908, 0.XLI.r 27 - Additional evidence - Improper confession - Search based on such evidence - Final or not - Prescribed interference - Punjab Customs Act (II of 1920), Sec.7 - Separation of powers of non-patrimonial property Suit for contestation - Maintenance.
The discretion to accept and admit additional evidence on appeal is not an arbitrary one but a jurisdictional matter circumscribed by the limitations referred to in O.XLI, r.27, of the Code of Civil Procedure, and if additional evidence is permitted to be added contrary to the principle governing the reception of such evidence, it would be inappropriate in the exercise of discretion and the additional evidence brought on record would have to be ignored and the case decided as if it were non-existent.
A valid occasion to admit additional evidence on appeal is when some inherent error or defect becomes apparent during the examination of the evidence, where nothing new is discovered outside the court, new evidence and an application is made to disclose it. The real test is that the appellate court is close to it.
Whether it is competent to pronounce judgment on the materials is sought to be added without considering the additional evidence.
CaseSUG cited Issuer v. GIP Railway (34 AI 115) and Parsatim v. Lal Mohan (58 I, A 254).
Whereas in general a finding of fact, whatever it may be, cannot be challenged on a second appeal, a finding which has come on the basis of additional evidence which should not be admitted, and without considering the inherent and obvious defects of nature such evidence cannot be accepted as a finding which is final on appeal.
Punjab Act II of 1920 under Section 7 - Paragraph No one can contest the transfer of non-patrimonial movable property on the ground that such deviation is against custom.
Civil Appeal Jurisdiction: Appeal (Civil Appeal No. 31 of 1950) - Against a Judgment and Decree dated February 28, 1946 of the Lahore High Court of Judicature. Regular Second Appeal No. 887 of 1942.
Ram Lal Anand (Harbans Lal Mittal, with him) for the appellant.
Bakshi Tek Chand (P. S. Safe, with him) for the respondents.
1951, March 2. Judgment of the Court Delivered
আইয়ার.-বাদী, Justice Chandrashekhara আইয়ার.-বাদী, Arjun Singh alias Puran, subordinate judge, brought a case against Inder Singh, Kartar Singh and five others in the court of Julundur, for the declaration that the will would be executed by the first respondent, Inder Singh, in favour of the second respondent,, Kartar Singh, about 14
Years ago there was null and void against the plaintiff, who was the returning heir of the first defendant after his death. The charge sheet alleged that Kadduwal village had half of the 395 kanals of land, Pattar Kalan village had 837 kanals and half of the 11 marlas of land and the latter village had four houses. The charge sheet showed the relationship between the parties by attaching genealogies, the plaintiff claimed Sehja Singh to be his 4th ancestor. Jodha Singh and Jai Singh were shown as sons of Sehja Singh. Defendant No. 1, Inder Singh, is the grandson of Jodha Singh. It is alleged that the parties are Jat agriculturists governed by customary law in the matter of alienation of ancestral property and inheritance and are not entitled to make a will in respect of his ancestral property as a sonless owner under this Act, when there is a similarity up to the 5th degree and since the entire property mentioned in the plaint was ancestral, the will was made by the first defendant on behalf of the second defendant claiming that the claim made by the first defendant was invalid and voidable. The plaintiff was born on July 22, 1919, and was a minor at the time of making the will, and therefore the suit was time-barred.
The case was mainly contested by the second defendant Kartar Singh, who had his adoption and pleaded that in the case of the plaintiff the properties were not ancestral at all. Defendants 3 to 7 are placed in a side position.
At the trial, it was admitted that the land situated at Kadduwal was not found to be ancestral.The subordinate judge said that even the land at Pattar Kalan was not shown to be ancestral by the evidence adduced in favour of the plaintiff, as it was found that the common ancestor Sehja Singh had only two names, Jodha Singh and Jai Singh.
There was no son, but a third son, named Pohlo, and from the mere fact that the two sons enjoyed equal shares of land, no inference can be drawn that the property was inherited by the paternal and common ancestor, while nothing is known about the third son's share. He recorded the findings in favour of the plaintiff in the matter of adoption and limitation, but he also stated that the plaintiff had no standing to contest the validity of the adoption as at the time of limitation had expired before his birth. The case was thus dismissed.
The plaintiff presented the appeal to the District Judge's Court. He filed an application for permission to add additional evidence under Order XLI, Rule 27, and Section 151, Code of Civil Procedure. The document he sought to take on record and consider, and of which it was alleged that he was not aware at the time of trial, was a commie more statement relating to Mouza Pattar Kalam, containing a note in which
Pohlo, the third son, had relinquished his interest in the ancestral property in favour of his brothers. A copy of the statement along with the appeal memorandum was filed. The application was naturally opposed by the rival defendants who pleaded that the plaintiff had ample opportunity to present all his evidence to the appellant in the lower court to prove that the property was patrimonial and that the entry relied upon by the appellant appeared to be a forgery. The District Judge posted the application for hearing along with the appeal. On March 17, 1942, i.e., even before he could hear the appeal, the District Judge allowed the application. Referring to the design prepared in 1849-50 Kami Beshi and the two entries found in the Muntakhib Asami-Yuddha prepared in 1852, which stated that Pohlo had relinquished his ancestral share, he observed: "If these two entries together
Taken, it appears to be correct, then that will enable the court to arrive at a just conclusion. Therefore, additional evidence should be adduced in the interest of justice. I have taken action under Order XLI, Rule 27 (1) (b) of the Code of Civil Procedure. This additional evidence will provide material to remedy the error pointed out in the judgment of the court below, as to why the two sons of Sehja Singh came to own an equal share of the land of Pattar Kalan in the presence of their third brother. "He allowed the parties to bring evidence relating to the two documents. Two witnesses were examined on behalf of the appellant. Munshi Peerthi Nath is the clerk of the DC Office, Jullundur City, and he had brought the record of rights of Pattar Kalan village during the settlement of 1849-50. Munshi Niyaz Ahmad brought the record of rights of Pattar Kalan village to the office Kanungo in Jullundur Tehsil and he brought the muntakhib asami-war of the record of rights reserved in the Tehsil Office. Both of them gave evidence regarding the relevant entries found in the register.
The District Judge reversed the decision of the Subordinate Judge and decided the plaintiff's case on the basis of additional evidentiary evidence. He held that the entries reliable to the appellant were not genuine and forged and that since Pohlo had relinquished his share, the land at Mouza Pattar Kalan was ancestral to the plaintiff. He also determined that the case was not barred and was within the time limit under Article 120 of the Indian Limitation Act, but the adoption set by the second defendant was not true. Since the custom in the district did not permit an owner to bequeath any part of his property, whether ancestral or self-acquired, the plaintiff was, in the opinion of the District Judge, entitled to contest the will. On the basis of these findings, he adjudicated the plaintiff's case in its entirety, including the lands in Kadduwal village which were admitted to be non-patrimonial and also the 4 bighas and 16 biswas (sic) of land at Pattar Kalan which are on record.
According to, Jodha was not possessed by Singh and Jai Singh, but by a third party.
The second respondent, Kartar Singh, filed a second appeal in the High Court on the matter. The learned Judges of the High Court have held that there is nothing to show that the land at Pattar Kalan is ancestral and that the District Judge was not justified in admitting the additional evidence in the form of the records of Naksha Kami More and Muntakhib Asami-War. They also noted that even superficial perusal of the original documents led one to conclude overwhelmingly that the entry was a later interpolation with regard to Pohlo giving up his share. They concluded that the entire land situated at Pattar Kalan was non-patrimonial and the case should have been dismissed in its entirety, since under Section 7 of Act II of 1920, no person is empowered to contest the alienation of ancestral immovable property in view of the finding that such alienation is contrary to custom. No other question has arisen to be decided in the case. However, leave was granted to appeal to Her Majesty's Council and thus this application is now before us.
It was strenuously argued by the learned counsel for the appellant that it was not open to the High Court to interfere with the discretion exercised by the District Judge in permitting the addition of additional evidence and even on the presumption that there was an erroneous finding of fact, it must be conclusive because the second appeal could only be admitted on the specific grounds mentioned in Section 100 of the Code of Civil Procedure. There is, however, a fallacy inherent in this argument. The discretion to admit and admit additional evidence is not an arbitrary one, but a jurisprudence circumscribed by the limitations set out in Order XLI, Rule 27 of the Code of Civil Procedure. If additional evidence is permitted to be added contrary to the principle of such admission of evidence, it would be a case of improper exercise of judgment and the additional evidence brought on record would have to be ignored and the case would have been decided if it did not exist. Under Order XLI, Rule 27, it would require the evidence to enable the Court of Appeal to pronounce judgment. As laid down by the Privy Council in the well-known case of Kissooji Issuer v GIP Railway (1), "the legitimate occasion for the application of the present rule is that in examining the evidence, some inherent error or defect becomes apparent, where it is not discovered outside the court, of new evidence and application is made to import it; and in the subsequent case of Parsotim v Lal Mohan (2) also they have reiterated this view in more emphatic terms. The real test, whether the Court of Appeal is competent to issue judgment on the materials before it without adding additional evidence to consider.
(1) 34 TA 115. (2) 58 1.A.254.
In the present case, there is nothing to show that there was any deficiency or void to be filled and that the Court of Appeal felt the need to exclude so that it could pronounce a judgment; to put it differently, it does not appear, and it is not stated that the District Judge found himself for the first time unable to come to a decision without a copy of the Settlement Register which was sought to be produced before him for the first time.. On the other hand, the District Judge decided even before the appeal hearing to admit the certified copy of the Kami more and Muntakhib Defendant-War Register. The order allowing the appellant to submit additional evidence was granted on March 17, 1942. The appeal was heard on April 24, 1942. Thus no examination of the evidence on record was made and a conclusion reached that the evidence was disclosed which the Court would have to satisfy for the pronouncement of its] judgment. In the circumstances, the learned Judges of the High Court are of the opinion rightly that it is not justified to admit these evidences under District Judge Order XLI, Rule 27.
Even while admitting that the additional testimony taken was proper, the District Judge failed to consider the inherent infirmities of the entries in the disposal register relied upon by the appellant, and several criticisms which may justly be made against them to show that they were false. He accepts the entries to be genuine. The only ground laid down by the Wise Judge for considering the entries as genuine and not forged is that it is proved that the records were in proper custody. In contrast to these rather absurd remarks we must set out the following observations of the Wise Judges of the High Court:
"Even a superficial perusal of the original documents leads one overwhelmingly to the conclusion that this entry was a later interpolation. There was already a comment in the column on which the design was more than adequate, and the comment relied upon is very awkwardly inserted there by a different pen and a different ink. It is even impossible to read it clearly. Further, although there are 2 or 3 other places where the names of Jodha and Jai Singh appear, no such comment has been made against them. It may also be noted that a corresponding comment appears in the column on Muntakhib Asami-Yuddha Sharah Lagan where it is clearly out of place in the copy preserved at the Tahsil office, but there is no such comment in the copy which is preserved at the headquarters here. It is not even logical why a comment to this effect should have been made in this column otherwise. The manner in which these entries were said to have been identified also casts much doubt on their veracity."
We find ourselves in full agreement with this observation of the learned Judges. It is undoubtedly true that the finding of fact, however erroneous, cannot be challenged in the second appeal, but a finding arrived at on the basis of additional evidence which should not be admitted and whatever be the inherent and obvious errors in the nature of these entries which raise serious doubts as to their veracity, cannot be accepted as the final result in the second appeal without considering the same.
If additional evidence is excluded from the account, the appellant's case
There is no such argument as that of Karna. There is nothing to show that the common ancestor Sehja Singh Mauja was entitled to the Kalan property of Patta, which was later found to be entered in equal shares in the names of the two sons, and nothing was said about the share of the third son, Pohlo. In fact, the genealogical table shows that there was a fourth son named Hamira. If the property had been entered in the register in equal shares in the names of all the sons, some of the grounds for presuming that the property was hereditary, as alleged by the plaintiff, may be too weak. There is nothing to show that the common ancestor was the owner of the land and that his sons inherited it from him in equal shares.
The District Judge was clearly wrong when he ordered the plaintiff's suit even while admitting that the lands of Kadduwal were non-patrimonial and the land measuring 4 bighas and 16 biswas (sic) of Khasra No.2408, which was not in the possession of their two sons Jodha Singh and Jai Singh.. He was equally wrong in holding that customary law which subjects the parties does not allow the owner to have any part of the property, whether patrimonial or self-acquired; this is contrary to Section 7 of the Punjab Act II of 1920, which is contained in these terms:
"Section 5, Punjab Lodge Act, 1872 - unless the subject-matter implies anything to the contrary, no person may contest the alienation of ancestral movable property or the appointment of heirs of such property on the ground that such alienation of appointment is contrary to custom.
If any other issue arises in this appeal, which will fail
And all will be dismissed with costs in court.
The appeal was rejected.
The Agent of the Petitioner: Ganpat Rai.
Agent of Respondents: S. P. Verma
The judgment translated into the local language is for limited use and understanding by the litigant in the mother tongue and cannot be used for any other purpose. For all practical and official purposes, the English version of the judgment shall be authentic and shall be applicable for the purposes of operation and enforcement.
