The State of Madras
Vs
Mrs. Champakam Dorairajan
In addition to and
The State of Madras
Vs
C. R. Srinivasan
[Shri Harilal Kania Chief Justice Fazal Ali, Patanjali Shastri, Mehar Chand Mahajan, Mukerjea, এস.আর.Das and Vivian Bose Justices.]
Constitution of India, Articles 1 3, 1 6 (4), 29 (2), 46 - Admission to Educational Institutions - Executive Order fixing the number of seats for certain communities - Invalidity - Fundamental right against discrimination solely on the basis of religion - Directive Principles of State Policy - Value.
With regard to the admission of students to engineering and medical colleges in the State, the State of Madras had issued an order (known as the Communal G.O.) that the seats should be filled by the Selection Committee strictly on the following basis, i.e., 6 out of every 14 seats were allotted to non-Brahmins (Hindus), 2 to Backward Hindus, 2 to Brahmins, 2 to Harijans, 1 each to Anglo-Indians and Indian Christians and 1 to Muslims:
The Communal G.O. constituted by the Full Court Order (Kania Chief Justice, Fazal Ali, Patanjali Shastri, Meher Chand Mahajan, Mukherjee, এস.আর.Das and Vivian Bose Justices) violated the fundamental right guaranteed to the citizens of India by Article 29 (2) of the Constitution, namely, "No citizen shall be deprived of admission to, or of receiving aid out of State funds, from any educational institution maintained by the State on grounds only of religion, race, caste, language or any of them," and hence struck down under Article 13.
The Directive Principles of State Policy laid down in Part IV of the Constitution cannot in any way abrogate or abridge the Fundamental Rights guaranteed by Part III. On the other hand they have to be carried out in a manner consistent with and ancillary to the Fundamental Rights laid down in Part III.
The verdict was upheld by the Madras High Court.
Civil Appeals Judiciary. - Cases No. 27 0 and 27 1 of 1 951
Judgment and order dated July 27, 1,950, under appeal under Article 32 (1) of the Constitution of India in the particular appeal from the Madras High Court under Article 226, praying for issue of writ of mandamus or other appropriate privilege prohibiting the State of Madras and all its officers and subordinates from executing, carrying out, maintaining or following the orders of the Government contained in Articles 15 (1) and 29 (2) of the Constitution and known to be communal in order to protect the fundamental rights of the petitioners.The G.O. which laid down the rules to be observed by the selection committee in the matter of admission of students to medical and engineering colleges in the State.
V. K. T. Chary, Advocate-General, Madras (R. Ganapathy Iyer, with him) for the appellant.
Alladi Krishnaswami Iyer (Alladi Kuppuswami Iyer, with him) on behalf of the respondents.
On April 9, 1951, the verdict was given by the court.
Judge Das - This judgment covers both Case No. 270 of 1991 (Madras v. Mrs. Champakam Dorairajan) and Case No. 271 of 1951 (Madras v. সি.আর.Srinivasan) which have been appealed from the judgment delivered by the High Court of Judicature at Madras on July 27, 1959, in two separate petitions under Article 226 of the Constitution alleging violation of the fundamental rights of applicants for admission to educational institutions maintained by the State.
Madras State runs four medical colleges and only 330 seats are available for students in these four colleges. Out of these 330 seats, 17 seats are reserved for students coming from outside the state and 12 seats are reserved for discretionary allocation by the state and the balance of available seats is shared among four different groups in the state. Similarly, Madras State maintains four engineering colleges and the number of seats available for students in those colleges is only 395. Of these, 21 seats are reserved for students coming from outside the state, 12 seats are reserved by the state for consideration and the balance of available seats are shared among the same four different districts.
For many years before the commencement of the Constitution, the seats in both medical colleges and engineering colleges were divided among four distinct groups of districts which were filled according to certain proportions which were called Communal G.O. Thus, for every 1 4 seats filled by the Selection Committee, candidates were rigorously selected on the following basis: -
Non-Brahmin (Hindu)... 6
The backward Hindus... 2.
The Brahmins.... 2
The Harijans.... 2
The Anglo-Indians and the Indian
The Christians.... 1
The Muslims.... 1
The protective provision has been selected from among the applicants of a particular community from a group of districts on the basis of certain principles, subject to the aforesaid regional and based on what is claimed to be the educational qualification and marks obtained by the candidates. In the case of medical colleges, not less than 20 per cent of the total number of seats available to the students of the State were filled by women candidates separately for each region, leaving it open to the selection committee to admit a larger number of women candidates. Admission according to the rules in which region if eligible candidates are available and if they are eligible for selection on merit as compared to male candidates. It appears that the old communal G. O.-তে prescribed ratio has been adhered to even after the introduction of the Constitution on January 26, 1,950. In fact, G.O. No.2208, dated June 16, 1,950, framing the regulations for selection of candidates for admission to medical colleges significantly highlights the old communal G. O.-তে prescribed communal ratio.
On June 7, 1950, Ms. Champakam Dorairajan filed a petition in the judicial Madras High Court under Article 226 of the Constitution to protect her fundamental rights under Article 15 (1) and Article 29 (2) of the Constitution and prayed for an appropriate privilege issue of a writ of mandamus or other writ restraining the State of Madras and all its officers and subordinates from enforcing, monitoring, maintaining or following the notification or from enforcing, observing, maintaining or following the order.The order is generally communal in nature.
referred to as the G.O. and by which admission to Madras Medical * Colleges was sought or in such manner involving violation and violation of his fundamental rights
There was talk of being controlled. It does not appear from the affidavit filed in support of her petition that the petitioner had in fact applied for admission to the medical college. She said that on inquiry, she came to know that she would not be admitted to the college as she belonged to the Brahmin community. However, no objection was taken to the maintenance of her application as there was no genuine application for her admission. On the contrary, we are told that the State had agreed to reserve a seat for her if her application before the High Court was successful. In the peculiar circumstances, we do not consider it necessary to pursue this matter further. But we would like to protect ourselves from the presumption that we allow a person who has not actually applied for admission to any educational institution on the ground of alleged violation of any fundamental right under Article 29 (2). The High Court allowed this application of Ms. Champakam Dorairajan vide its judgment dated July 27, 1959. The State of Madras has now come before us for appeal which has been numbered Case No. 270 of 1951.
Mr. Srinivasan who had actually applied for admission to the Government Engineering College at Guindy, praying for a writ of mandamus or otherwise restraining the State of Madras and all its officers from executing, monitoring, maintaining or following the Communal G.O. and by which admission to the engineering college was sought to be regulated filed a petition under Article 15 (1) and Article 29 (2) of the Constitution in such a manner as to violate the fundamental rights of the petitioner.
In the affidavit filed in support of her petition, the petitioner has stated that she had passed the Intermediate examination held in the month of March 1,950, Group 1 A, passed the said examination with first class and obtained the prescribed marks which are given in paragraph 1 of her affidavit
It would appear that the petitioner Srinivasan has scored 369 out of a maximum of 450 marks in the options that are considered in determining the academic examination for admission to engineering colleges.The High Court by the same judgment has also allowed this petition and the State an appeal
filed which numbered 27 1 of 1 951. The learned counsel appearing for the State of Madras admitted that these two applicants would be admitted to their educational institutions had there been a desire to join and that they would not have been denied admission if they had been selected on merit alone.
Under the heading "Cultural and Educational Rights" in Part III of the Constitution, Article 29 states as follows:
"(1) Any section of citizens residing in the territory of India or any part thereof having a distinct language, script or culture of its own shall have the right to preservation.
(2) No citizen shall, on grounds only of religion, race, caste, language or any one of them, be deprived of admission to any educational institution maintained by the State or of receiving aid out of State funds.
It will be observed that while Clause (1) protects the language, script or culture of a section of citizens, Clause (2) guarantees the fundamental rights of an individual citizen. The right of admission to an educational institution of the type mentioned in Clause (2) is a right which a citizen has as a citizen and not as any member of the citizens. A citizen cannot be deprived of this right solely on grounds of religion, race, caste, language or any of them. If a citizen who wishes to be admitted to any such educational institution does not possess the requisite educational qualifications and is
is denied admission to the community or class on that ground, but he must not be heard to complain of a violation of his fundamental rights under this article. But, on the other hand, if he has an educational qualification but is denied admission solely on account of religion, race, caste, language or any of these, there will be a clear violation of his fundamental rights.
The learned Advocate-General, appearing for the State, contends that the provisions of this Article must be read with other Articles of the Constitution. He pleads that Article 46 imposes upon the State to promote with special care the educational and economic interests of the weaker sections of the people, and in particular, the Scheduled Castes and Tribes, and to protect them from social injustice and exploitation. It is pointed out that though this Article finds a place in Part IV of the Constitution which lays down certain directive principles of State policy, and although the provisions contained in that Part are not enforceable by any court, the principles laid down therein make it obligatory on the part of the State to apply these principles to the governance of the fundamental country and to the enactment of Article 37. The argument is that having regard to the provisions of Article 46, the State retains the communal G.O. entitlement and fixes proportionate seats for the different communities. And if by reason of that order, which is thus claimed to be valid in law and not violative of the Constitution, the petitioners are unable to gain admission to educational institutions, there is no violation of any of their fundamental rights. In fact, the learned Advocate-General of Madras has even contended that the provisions of Article 46 override the provisions of Article 29 (2). We reject the above-mentioned contentions in their entirety. The Directive Principles of State Policy, which have been expressly rendered unenforceable by a court by Article 37, cannot override the provisions found in Part III which, notwithstanding other provisions, have been made expressly enforceable by appropriate writs, orders or directives under Article 32. The Chapter on Fundamental Rights is sacrosanct and is not liable to be abridged by any law or executive act or order, except to the extent provided for in the appropriate paragraph of Part III. The Directive Principles of State Policy are to be carried out in a manner consistent with and ancillary to the Chapter on Fundamental Rights. This, in our opinion, is the proper way in which the provisions found in Parts III and IV are to be understood. However, so long as there is no violation of any fundamental right, to the extent provided for by the provisions in Part III, the State cannot have any objection to act in accordance with the principles indicated in Part IV, but once again subject to the legislative and executive powers and limitations conferred on the State under the various provisions of the Constitution.
In the latter place, it will be observed that Article 16 which guarantees the fundamental right to equality of opportunity in matters of public employment and provides that no citizen shall be favoured on the ground only of religion, race, caste, sex, descent, place of birth., residing in any of them, being disqualified or subjected to discrimination in respect of any employment or office under the State also includes a specific clause in the following terms and conditions: -
"(4) Nothing in this article shall prevent the State from making any provision for the appointment to posts in favour of any backward class of citizens which, in the opinion of the State, is not adequately represented in the services under the State."
Had the arguments founded on Article 46 been correct then clause (4) of Article 1 6 would have been wholly unnecessary. However, seeing that this clause (4) has been inserted in Article 1 6, the omission of such an express provision from Article 29 cannot be considered significant. It may well be that the purpose of the Constitution was not to introduce communal considerations at all in the matter of admission to any educational institution administered by the State or in the matter of receiving aid out of State funds. The protection of the backward classes of citizens may require the appointment of members of the backward classes in State services, and in those circumstances it may be understood why the State has been empowered to reserve such appointments for the backward classes. That consideration, however, is clearly necessary in the case of admission to an educational institution.
has not been considered and this may cause the exclusion from paragraph 29 of a clause similar to clause (4) of Article 1 6.
Take the case of petitioner Srinivasan.It is not in dispute that he got much more marks than many non-Brahmin candidates got and yet the non-Brahmin candidates who got less marks will be admitted to six out of every 14 seats
But the applicant Srinivasan will not get admission in any of them. What is the reason for this denial of admission except that he is a Brahmin, not a non-Brahmin. He may have got more marks than the Anglo-Indian and Indian Christian or Muslim candidates but, nevertheless, he cannot get any of the seats reserved for the last mentioned community for the fault of being a Brahmin and not being a member of the aforesaid communities. The aforesaid communities. Such denial of admission cannot be construed to be made solely on the basis of his caste.
It is argued that applicants are not denied admission merely because they are Brahmins but there are various reasons for doing so such as, (a) they are Brahmins, (b) Brahmins are allotted only two seats out of 14 and (c) two seats have already been filled by more meritorious Brahmin candidates. This may be true in the case of these two seats reserved for Brahmins but this argument cannot have any force when we consider the seats reserved for candidates belonging to other communities, since in the case of these seats, applicants have been denied admission to any of them solely on the grounds of being Brahmins and not being members of the community for which these reservations have been made. The categorization in the Communal G.O. proceeds on the basis of religion, caste and caste. In our view, the categorization formulated in the Communal G.O. contradicts the Constitution and constitutes a clear violation of the fundamental rights of citizens under Article 29 (2). In this view of the matter, we do not consider it necessary to consider the implications of Articles 1 4 or 1 5 in the specific paragraphs discussed above.
For the reasons set out above, we are of the opinion that the Communal G.O. being incompatible with the provisions of Article 29 (2) of Part III of the Constitution is void under Article 1 3. Consequently, these appeals are dismissed with costs.
The appeal was rejected.
The Appellant's Agent: P. A. Mehta.
Agents of the Respondents: এম.এস.কে.Shastri.
1 951
The judgment translated into the local language is for limited use and understanding by the litigant in the mother tongue and cannot be used for any other purpose. For all practical and official purposes, the English version of the judgment shall be authentic and shall be applicable for the purposes of operation and enforcement.
