Roy Bridge Raj Krishna and another
Vs
এস.কে. sh and the brothers.
[Justices Syed Fazal Ali, Meher Chand Mahajan, Mookerjee and Chandrashekhar Aiyar.]
Bihar Buildings (Lease, Rent and Eviction) Regulation Act (III of 1949), Section1 1 - Controller's order for eviction on account of non-payment of rent - Suit for setting aside the order - Jurisdiction of civil court - Whether question - Payment was the finality of the Controller's decision.
Section 11 of the Bihar Building (Lease, Rent and Eviction) Regulation Act, 1949, conferred a jurisdiction on the controller, which includes the jurisdiction to determine whether the rent has been paid, as well as the jurisdiction to order the eviction of the tenant even if the rent has not been paid. Therefore, even if a controller has wrongly decided the question of whether the rent has not been paid, his order of eviction cannot be questioned in a civil court on the ground that the rent has not been paid.
Quinn v Commissioners relied on special purposes of income tax (2 1 Q.B.D.31 3) and Colonial Bank of Australia v Willan (L.R.5 P.C.4 1 7).
Civil Appeal Jurisdiction: Appeal from a Judgment and Decree of the Patna High Court dated March 25, 1949, A.S.2 80 of 1949, Case No. 62 of 1949, revoking the Decree of Appeal of the Subordinate Judge.
Baldev Sahai (T. K. Prasad, with him) for the appellant.
এন.সি.Chatterjee (H. J. Umrigar, with him) for the respondent.
On February 2, 1951, the judgment of the court was delivered
Fazal Ali JUSTICE. - This is an appeal from a judgment and decree in the court of the High Court at Patna reversing the decree of appeal of the subordinate judge in a case instituted by the respondents. The facts of this case are summarized as follows. The respondents are in occupation as monthly tenants of a few blocks of the premises belonging to the appellants at a monthly rent of Rs 112. The rent for the months of March, April and May, 1949, falling due, they paid the same by two cheques with the rent for the month of June, 1949. As the appellants did not accept the cheques, on August 4, 1949, the respondents subsequently remitted the amount by way of postal money order. On August 12, 1949, the appellants maintained that the rent had not been paid and hence were liable to evict the respondents under Section 11 (1) (a) of the Bihar Buildings (Lease, Rent and Eviction) Regulation Act 1947 (Bihar Act of 1949). I have applied to the Controller of Houses for eviction of the respondents from the premises. Section 11 (1) (a) of the Act reads as follows: -
"Contrary to any contract or law and subject to the provisions of section 1 2, where a tenant is in possession of a building, he shall not be liable to be evicted therefrom, whether or not it is otherwise executed, except -
(a) in the case of a month-to-month tenant, for non-payment of rent or for breach of rent conditions, or for subletting the building or any part thereof without the consent of the landlord, or if he is an employee occupying the building as an employee of the landlord, his ceasing to be in such employment; '
On August 30, 1949, the respondents, whose money had already been refunded by the appellants, deposited the rent till June in the office of the house controller's house controller. Despite these deposits, the house controller passed an order on November 31, directing the eviction of the respondents by May 19, 1989, and holding that they had made themselves liable for eviction on account of non-payment of rent. Order 2 of the house controller was upheld by the commissioner on appeal on April 7, 1949, and thereafter the respondents filed the present suit in the court of the Patna munsif for a declaration that the order of the controller dated November 19, 1949, was illegal, ultra vires and without jurisdiction. The case was dismissed by the munsif and its decree was upheld by the appeal, but the high court dismissed the case on the ground that the rent controller's order was without jurisdiction. The appellants were thereafter granted leave to appeal by the high court and accordingly they have preferred this appeal.
The High Court has delivered a somewhat wide-ranging judgment in this case, but it appears to us that the issue raised in this appeal is a simple one. The basic ground on which the respondents have attacked the order of eviction by the Controller of Houses was that there was in fact no non-payment of rent, and since no order of eviction could be made under the Bihar Act unless non-payment was established, the Controller of Houses had no jurisdiction to make the order. On the other hand, one of the contentions raised by the appellants is that the rent was not paid within the meaning of the expression used in the Act, since the rent was neither paid nor given as any.
It was noted in the reading that the rent for March was due in the month of April and the rent for April was due in May, but the respondents did not take any steps to settle the arrears until June 28, 1949. At the commencement of the tenancy, the respondents paid one month's rent in advance, and it was agreed between them and the appellants that the advance rent would be adjusted whenever there was an error in the payment of the whole one month's rent. Although it was pointed out that the advance payment could only be adjusted for the month's rent, however, in the present case, the rent had become due for three months, and since the rent is payable in the month in which the monthly tenant is, therefore, for each month in which the rent is due in the following month, the non-payment of that rent in due time was sufficient to attract the provisions of section 1 1 (1) (a) of the Act. The appellants also raised a second controversy, namely, as to the scheme of the Act, that the Comptroller of the House was fully competent to decide whether the condition precedent to the eviction had been satisfied, and that once that conclusion had been reached, it could not be questioned in the Court of Appeal. This dispute was accepted by the first two courts, and the Court of First Appeal, acting in concert with it, observed as follows: -
"But the Buildings Control Act empowered the Controller to decide whether the rent was paid or not and he assumed jurisdiction only when he was satisfied that the rent had not been paid. If the question of jurisdiction depended on the decision of some fact or matter of law, and if the court was called upon to decide on such a question, such a decision could not be impeached in parallel (Wide1 2 Patna 1 1 7). In my opinion when the Controller had accepted jurisdiction to be satisfied that there was non-payment of rent and the passing of an eviction order. I think the Civil Court could have no jurisdiction to challenge the validity of such an order."
The High Court, however, did not accept this view and after referring to Section 1 1 of the Transfer of Property Act
In these words lays out his own point of view: -
"In the circumstances in which the law in question was enacted and the purpose of which, as stated in the preamble as'to prevent the unreasonable eviction of tenants" from buildings, it would seem that the expression is'non-payment of rent. "Section 1 1 The context in which it is used would have to be given an interpretation which would have the effect of increasing the protection against the determination of tenancy enjoyed by a tenant under the common law. The legislature, therefore, would not be held responsible for evicting a tenant'except for the repayment of rent" for the purpose of protecting a tenant from being evicted from a building in his possession on account of default in payment of rent, if he brought to court all the rent due from him before his eviction order was passed.
If, as opposed to the Respondents, Section 1 1 of the Act as entitling a landlord to apply for eviction of a tenant on the ground of irregular payment of rent amounting to'non-payment'of rent, and empowering the Regulator to determine whether the irregular payment of rent within the meaning of sub-section (1) of Section 1 1 and sub-section (3) of Section 1 8 amounts to non-payment of rent, the Regulator is a final in this question of law, it would appear that this Act alone has conferred on the landowner a far greater right in determining tenancy than it enjoys under the ordinary law, but that it would confer on the Regulator a far greater power than the rights of the civil courts under the ordinary law in passing decrees for the eviction of tenants. The principle of law and fairness upon which relief is granted against forfeiture for'non-payment of rent'would be wholly abrogated, and instead of increasing the building the protection of tenants would become much less.
A construction of these provisions, which are calculated to cause these consequences, cannot be in conformity with the circumstances in which this Act was made and cannot be appealed and actually accepted. "Mr. Lalnarayan Sinha's argument on behalf of the respondent that the circumstances disclosed in the petition raised questions for determination by the regulator that a case of non-payment of rent was established in accordance with the Act and that his decision on that question, even if unjustified in law, must quash the liability to be questioned in civil court."
It seems to us that the view taken by the High Court is not correct. Section 1 1 begins with the words "notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in any contract or law" and therefore any attempt to import a provision relating to the law of transfer of property would seem out of place for the interpretation of the section. Section 1 1 is a self-contained section, and it is wholly unnecessary to go beyond the law to determine whether a tenant shall be evicted or not and under what conditions he may be evicted. It clearly provides that a tenant is not liable to be evicted except under certain conditions, and one of the conditions laid down for the eviction of a tenant from month to month is non-payment of rent. Sub-section (3) (b) of section 1 1 provides that "the Controller, if he is satisfied that the claim of the landlord is true, shall make an order directing the tenant to keep the landlord in possession of the building" and if he is not satisfied he shall order the dismissal of the application. Section 1 6 empowers the Controller to investigate and inspect and summon and enforce the attendance of witnesses and compel the production of documents in the same manner as the Code of Civil Procedure. Section 1 8A provides that any person aggrieved by an order made by the Controller may, within 15 days of the receipt of such order by him, make an appeal to the Commissioner of the Department and it also prescribes the procedure for hearing the appeal. Sub-section (3)
This section provides that "Subject to the decision of the Commissioner and only such decision, an order of the Controller shall be final, and shall not be liable to be questioned in any court of law in litigation or any other proceeding under appeal or revision." The Act thus sets up a whole apparatus for the investigation of all matters on which the Controller's jurisdiction to order the eviction of a tenant depends, and it expressly makes his order final, and subject only to the decision of the Commissioner. The Act empowers the Controller alone to decide whether the rent is being paid or not, and his decision on this question is essential before passing an order under section 11. See whether it is at all possible to question the Controller's decision on any matter which the Act expressly empowers him to decide. The law on the subject is very clearly stated in the words of Lord Esher এম.আর. by The Queen v Commissioners for Special Purposes of the Income-Tax (1), as follows: -
"When an inferior court or tribunal or body, which has to exercise its power to decide facts, is first established by an Act of Parliament, the legislature has to consider what powers it will give to that tribunal or body. It may effectively say that, if a certain condition exists and something is shown to such a tribunal or body before it is done, it will have jurisdiction to do such things, but not otherwise. There it is not final for them to decide whether this event is true or not. And if they exercise jurisdiction without its existence, then what they do may be called into question, and it will be assumed that they have acted without jurisdiction. There is, however, a further circumstance which may exist. The legislature may trust the tribunal or body with a jurisdiction, which includes the jurisdiction to determine whether a state of primary fact exists as well as the jurisdiction to find whether it exists, in order to do so when some other legislature establishes such a tribunal or body with limited jurisdiction.
(1) 2 1 Q.B.D.31 3, 31 at 9.
2 0
There is also to be considered, whatever jurisdiction they give them, whether there will be any appeal from their decision, or whether there will be none. In the second of the two cases I have pointed out that it is an erroneous application of the formula that the Tribunal cannot give itself jurisdiction by wrongly deciding the existence of certain facts, because the Legislature has given it jurisdiction to determine all the facts, including their existence. The primary facts upon which the further exercise of their jurisdiction depends; and if they are given jurisdiction so to decide, there is no appeal from the exercise of their jurisdiction, except to grant any appeal. "
In the same line are the following observations of Sir James Colville in The Colonial Bank of Australia v Willan (1), a case dealing with the principles on the basis of which a writ of certiorari may be issued: --
"Accordingly, the authority... establishes that a judgment by the judge having jurisdiction over the matter, if no error can be seen on his face, shall be taken as conclusive of the facts stated therein; and the Queen's Bench of the Court shall not overrule on this ground a judgment that any such fact, however necessary, has been wrongly found."
There is no doubt that the present case falls within the second category referred to it by Lord Esher, for here the statute conferred a jurisdiction on the Controller, which includes the jurisdiction to determine whether the rent has not been paid. As to jurisdiction, finding that the rent has not been paid, to order the eviction of a tenant. There before, even if it is assumed that the Controller has wrongly decided the question of non-payment of rent, which is by no means clear, his order cannot be questioned in a civil court. It seems to us that on the basis of this brief this appeal must succeed, and we
(1) 5P.C. 4 1 7, at p. 4 4 3.
Accordingly, the appellants shall be entitled to all costs incurred by the courts in granting the appeal, setting aside the judgment and restoring its decree.
The appeal has been allowed.
The Appellant's Agent: R. C. Prasad.
The Agent of the Respondent: S. P. Verma.
The judgment translated into the local language is for limited use and understanding by the litigant in the mother tongue and cannot be used for any other purpose. For all practical and official purposes, the English version of the judgment shall be authentic and shall be applicable for the purposes of operation and enforcement.
