Ujay Singh
vs.
state of Punjab.
In addition to and instead of
Jagjit Singh.
vs.
state of Punjab.
[Justices: Syed Fazal, Ramachanal, Swaroop Mehta, and Chandrashekhar Iyer.]
II of the Preventive Devise (Amendment) Bill (1950), 3, 12 - order of detention - non-specific reference to the period of detention- basis given is vague and the same as in the previous order - details provided after 4 months - validity of detainer - duty to provide details as soon as possible - form of detention order - order signed by the Home Secretary - validity.
The fact that a detention order made under section 3 of the Preventive Detention Act (IV of 1950) does not mention any specific period of time is not a material omission which makes the order illegal, in view of the provisions contained in Article 22 (section (4) (a) and (7) (a) of the Constitution and section 12 of the said Act, all of which:
The detention order which clearly states that the Governor of the concerned state was satisfied about the necessity of making such an order and that it has been made by the Governor's order is not flawed as it has been signed by the Home Secretary.
The adjustment of the basis of the order does not need to be ordered directly by the authority but can be done through recognized channels as prescribed by the rules of administrative work.
A person's past conduct or prior history may be taken into account when making a detention order, and in fact, it is primarily the preceding events that show a person's propensity or disposition from which an inference can be drawn as to whether he or she will act in a manner prejudicial to the maintenance of public order in the foreseeable future. The authority can be held liable on an immoral charge if the authority making the order is satisfied that the previous incident in which the person was detained still exists and requires detention on that basis because the grounds for attributing the second detention are the same as those of the first detention.
Whether the grounds are stated "as soon as possible" must depend on the facts of each case. No arbitrary time limit can be set.
Where the applicants who were ordered detained were given only vague reasons and there was an inexcusable delay of almost 4 months in giving their details, their detention is illegal and they should be released.
Original judgment: Pleas no. 149 and 167 of 1949.
Application of the rule of habeas corpus under Article 32 of the Constitution.
Baba Chittaran Singh is the petitioner in case no. 149.
Bindra is the name of the petitioner in RG No. 167.
Punjab's Advocate-General, B K Khanna, appeared before the court on both counts.
Sir, David, Attorney-General for India, for the United Kingdom (interview in RG No. 149).
On February 23, 1951, the judgment was entered.
By Justice Chandrashekhar Iyer - The two earlier pleas have been filed by one Ujay Singh under Article 32 of the Constitution of India, for a writ of habeas corpus and an order for release from detention. The next similar petition is by Jagjit Singh. The respondent in both cases is the state of Punjab. The detention order was made under Section IV of the Preventive Detention Act, 1950. The pleas are not connected with each other, they raise the same ground.
In Petition No. 149 of 1950, Ujagar Singh was arrested and detained under the Eastern Punjab Public Safety Act on September 29, 1948. He was released on March 28, 1949, but on the same day, there was an order of interception against him. He was re-arrested on September 29, 1949. On March 2, 1950, his detention was ordered under the Preventive Detention Act, 1950, and on April 3, 1950, he was served with the grounds of detention which were those of March 11, 1950. Both in September, 1949, and in March, 1950, it was alleged on the ground that "You had attempted to create public order among the tenants in Updike by circulating and distributing objectionable literature issued by hidden communists." Additional grounds were furnished in July 1950.
In Petition No. 167 of 1950, Jamjit Singh was arrested on July 24, 1948, under the Punjab Security Act, 1947. After the enactment of the Eastern Punjab Public Safety Act, 1949, a new detention order was issued on May 14, 1949, and he was kept in jail. On September 7, 1949, he was given the reason for his detention. A new order of detention under the Preventive Detention Act (IV of 1950), dated March 2, 6, 1949, was served on him. The reason for his arrest on March 11, 1950, was served upon him on April 3, 1950. In both 1949 and 1949, the same reason was given, namely, "Following the policy of the Communist Party, you were engaged in preparing the public for violent revolutionary operations and attended secret party meetings to carry out this programme." Additional or supplementary grounds were served on August 5, 1950.
A number of disputes were advanced on behalf of the petitioners challenging the legality of their detention and requesting that since the detention was unlawful and violated the petitioners' fundamental right to personal liberty, their liberty should be granted. The points taken in their favour are largely as follows. Since the cause of detention now referred to was the same as that specified in 1948 or 1949, i.e., several months earlier under provincial law, the order of detention was made mechanically and was truly unfair in the sense that there was nothing to show any new satisfaction on the part of the detaining authority that the detainee was necessary in the interests of public order. Secondly, the reasons were not given "as soon as may be," as required under section 7 of the Act; and since an unusually long period of time elapsed between the order of the detention and the granting of the cause, the detention must be held to be unlawful after a reasonable time has lapsed. Thirdly, the initial grounds were so vague that they could not be said to be grounds which would enable the determining person to make any representation against the order. Fourthly, the supplementary ground can not be furnished and should not be taken into account whether the original order was valid, or whether the detention became unlawful after some reasonable period of time. Two other matters of a subsidiary nature were also raised, namely that the order was bad because it appears to be required by section 12 that the period of detention is not specified in therein and that the reasons given did not imply that the order of authority was that of the Governor of the State.
There is no substance in the last two points. Section 12 of the Act does not say that the period of detention should be specified in the order itself where the detention prevents a person from acting in a manner prejudicial to the maintenance of public order. The section itself provides that a person may be detained for more than three months without obtaining the opinion of the Advisory Board but that the period for detention shall not exceed one year. Generally, unless an Advisory Board has reported before the expiry of the said period that there is sufficient cause for such detention, the period of incarceration shall not exceed three months. See Article 22, clause (4), sub-section (a) of the Constitution. Under sub-clause (7) of this article, Parliament may by law determine "in what circumstances, and in the class or classes of cases, in which a persons detention may be permitted for a period exceeding three months in accordance with the provisions of sub-clausus (a1) of clause (4) of the Act providing for preventive detention without obtaining The Advisory Board." Therefore, detention for an exceedingly long period may be justified on the basis of the opinion of a Board of Trustees or permit detention for a longer period when the detention is carried out to ensure the proper functioning of public order, in which case it may in no way exceed one year, as provided for in section 12 of the Preventive Detention Act. It is thus clear that the period does not usually exceed three months, but may go up to one year in certain special cases. In view of these provisions the annex to a detention order does not exclude an element which in itself renders the order illegal.
Under Section 3 of the Preventive Detention Act, the power to make orders rests with the state government. Section 166 (1) of the Constitution provides that all executive actions of the government of a state shall be taken in the name of the governor. The order of detention states clearly that the governor of Punjab was satisfied with the requirements and that they were made in his order. There is no doubt that the order was signed by the home secretary, and there is no error in it. Exchange of reasons need not be done directly by the authority issuing the order. Section 7 does not mandate this. Administrative work may be done through recognized channels as prescribed by the rules.
Let us now turn our attention to the main controversy. It is neither unusual nor surprising that, in both cases, the same grounds have been repeated after the lapse of several months when it is considered that the applicants were detained and imprisoned during the intervening period. No new proceedings could be attributed to them. There can only be a repetition of the original ground or ground, whether good or bad. This does not imply that the satisfaction of the determining authority was entirely mechanical and that the mind did not correspond to the pen. A person's past conduct or previous history could be taken into account when determining detention, and indeed, a presumption could be drawn from the fact that the person's tendencies or interests stemmed largely from previous events to determine whether he was likely to act in a manner prejudicial to the maintenance of public order in the future. If the authority satisfied itself that the real cause still existed and that detention was necessary on that basis, it cannot be inferred from this fact alone that the authority could not be held liable for being injurious.
The law does not specify the length of time within which a detainee must be shown cause.
6-8 INDIA/71
It simply says that the exchange must take place "as soon as possible." It means reasonable and that what is reasonable must depend on the facts of each case. No arbitrary time limit can be fixed. The delay in the exchange of two letters has been adequately explained by the Home Secretary who in his affidavit says that around 250 detainees had to be provided with grounds and the printing of the required forms took some time. According to him, he had placed an order on 11/03/1950 to provide reasons.
The extreme vagueness of the cause remains as the main avenue of attack. As already stated, the basic premise stated in the 1950 Petition No. 149 is "to cause public disorder among the tenants in the town by the dissemination and distribution of offensive literature issued by the underground communists." In the other petition, the premise is that "following the policy of the Communist Party you were engaged in preparing the masses for violent revolutionary operations and attended secret party meetings to carry out this programme." We may set aside for a moment the later furnished supplementary grounds.
There can be little doubt that in both cases the grounds furnished in the first instance were extremely vague. Arg. 30 of 1950, taking the case of Ishwar Das, such vagueness would in itself constitute a justification for the release of the petitioners. From the date of that decision, however, this Court had to consider the question in two cases in Bombay and Calcutta respectively - Cases Nos. 22 and 24 of 1950 - where the subject-matter of the meaning and scope of Section 7 came up for wider consideration under the Preventive Detention Act and Article 22, paragraphs (5) and (6) of the Constitution of India. The decision in the said cases was taken on 25 January 1951, and we are now guided by the principles enunciated in these judgments. This was held by the majority judge in Case No. 22 of 1950 (1) (a) that the mere vagueness of reason, without the presumption of bad faith or lack of good faith standing in one's favour, is not ajustification for the necessity of an order in a court of law, although the grounds or reasons on which an order of detention was made are a matter for the subject matter satisfaction of the Government or the detaining authority; (b) there is nothing in this Act to prevent the detening person from furnishing the particulars of the reasons within a reasonable time so that he may have a speedy opportunity of making a representation against the order or detention - the reasonable time depends on the facts of each case - upon it; (c) failure to provide the ground with the expeditious addition of such particulars, so that the detenuate is able to make a representation at the earliest opportunity against the order of detenuation, may be considered by a judge of law to be an attack on the fundamental rights guaranteed by the Constitution or on the assurance of protection as, for example, being afforded the shortest opportunity of making such a representation; and (d) no new ground can be provided to strengthen or consolidate the original order for detention. (1) Bombay v. Rama Rama Rao (1951) ...
We are not so much concerned with the earlier history of the detainees as with what happened to them under the Preventive Detention Act, 1949. Ignoring the fact that the reason given in March 1950 was exactly the same as that given in September 1949, and excluding the vagueness of the original grounds furnished in both cases to support the framing of the order, it is impossible to justify a delay of nearly four months in furnishing what has been stated as additional or supplementary reasons.
Let us first take Plea No. 149. On the grounds furnished in the 1935 Constitution, there are a number of grounds apparently unrelated to the original grounds. "You were responsible for the workers working on the Babera dam going on strike in October 1947..." "You instigated the workers working at Nangal to go on strike in 1948 to get their demands conceded." "After your release you left your village and (2) for a considerable period of time you were not found." "When you were re-arrested at 29/09/1949, a large quantity of objectionable Communist literature was recovered on your search" - this is an example of the new grounds, and they must therefore be excluded from consideration. In Jamjit Singh's petition No. 167 of 1950, the supplementary grounds, which are in number, date on 31/7/1950, but they were served on him on 5/8/1950, that is, two days after he had prepared his application to this Court under Article 32 of the Constitution. The particulars of the general charges filed against him when the substantive grounds of detention were served on 3/3/1950. However, the reason enabling him to be represented at the earliest opportunity was not borne in mind or accepted. In the affidavit of Mr. Ramesh Babu, Home Secretary to the Government of Punjab, dated 9/6/1950, the delay in the specification of the particulars did not give any explanation for this anomaly. This delay is very sad indeed. But for this the applicant would not be able to claim that a violation of one of the precious rights guaranteed to him by the Constitution had been committed. It has not been argued by the Home Secretary that the detained person was given these particulars when he was arrested and detained under the Provincial laws and that it was thereby deemed unnecessary to give him the same particulars once they had expired. On the other hand, it was alleged by the detainee that, as of August 5, 1950, he had not been given any particulars.
Since the petitioners were only given vague grounds which were not specified or made clear so as to give them the first opportunity to make representations against the detention order, the order and the inexcusable delay in informing them with the details of their grievances, the petitioners have to be released, the rule being made absolute.
2.7-3 INDIA/71
Justice Patanjali Shrestha, I agree with the order proposed by my Honourable Colleague, Justice Chandrashekhar Iyer.
Justice Devin, thank you. - In view of the majority decision in Case No. 22 of 1950 (Bombay v. Rama Rama Rao), I concur in the order proposed by my honourable judge.
Come up with an order accordingly.
Please read No. 194 of 1950.
Fix the grammar: The agent of the petitioner: R. R. Biswas.
Fix the grammar: The agent of the respondent: P. A. Mehta.
Fix the grammar: The agent of the intruder: P. A. Mehta.
R.G. No. 167 of 1950.
The agent of the application: ...
Fix the grammar: The agent of the respondent: P. A. Mehta.
The judgment, translated into the local language, is limited in use and is for the understanding of the litigant in his native language and cannot be used for any other purpose. For all practical and official purposes, the English version of the judgment shall be authentic and shall be applicable for operational and enforcement purposes.
