Gurbachan Singh
vs.
The Bombay state and other
[Chief Justice, Patanjali Shrestha, Justices, Meher Chand Mahajan, Mukerjea, and Chandrashekhar Iyer]
City of Bombay Police Act, 1902, Section 27 (1) - Constitution of India, Article 19 (1) - (d), 19 (5) - Whether the provisions relating to exclusion violate the fundamental right of freedom of movement - Justification - Exclusion order - Placement of residence outside of the Bombay state for legality - Lawfulness.
Section 27 (1) of the City of Bombay Police Act, 1902, does not violate the provisions of Article 19 of the Constitution, since it was enacted in the interest of the general public and is applicable in consideration of the class of cases and an appeal order was issued under it for the purpose of avoiding danger, the restrictions that are imposed on the fundamental right of a citizen to freedom of movement which are guaranteed by Article 19 (1) (d) of the Constitution are reasonable and fall within the ambit of Article 19 (5).
Whether restrictions imposed by a legislative enactment on a citizen's fundamental right given in Article 19 (1) (d) of the Constitution are reasonable or not reasonable within the meaning of proviso (5) of this article depends as much on the procedural part of the law as on the particular part thereof, and in each instance the court has to see what circumstances and in what manner the restrictions have been imposed.
Two types of externment orders are provided by sub-section (1) of section 27 of the City of Bombay Police Act, 1902, where the externment is directed from the Greater Bombay and the other where the outsider removes himself from the State of Burma. In the case of the first class, the externment order must specify the place where the externalr will remove himself and it must indicate the route by which he must reach that place. On the other hand, where the externaler was from the state of Bijay, the outsider may stay anywhere of his choice outside the state and no place of residence may be mentioned or required.
Whereas an externment order has been made under Section 27 (1) of the City of Bombay Police Act which directs a person who is a resident of the city of bombay to remove himself from the place of his birth in Amritsar and proceed to his place of birth in Kalyan, where he may be allowed to stay for a period, which is outside of Greater Bombay, and he was permitted to do so: The order held that, in view of the subsequent request of the outsider which was accepted by the Commissioner of Police, the externment order may be constituted as an order from Great Bombay to Kalyan and, therefore, a valid order of termination.
Original judgment: Petition No. 76 of 1952.
The application under Article 32 of the Constitution of India is for a writer in the nature of a mandamus.
emperor in chief of the applicants.
G.N. Sorry for the late reply.
Judgment of the Court of Appeal, 7 May 1952
Justice Mukerjee- This is a petition under Article 32 of the Constitution, presented by one Gurbachan Singh, praying for a writ in the nature of a mandamus, which imposes an external order on the respondents as well as their subordinates and successors, the petitioner under Section 27 (1) of the City of Bombay Police Act (1902).
The applicant is an Indian citizen and is reported to be living with his father at a place called "Guernsey Niwas," on the Vincent Road, Dadar, while his father is engaged in the business of selling electrical goods in the city of Bombay. On July 23, 1951, an order was issued to the applicant which was publicly communicated by the Commissioner of Police, Bombay City, under Section 27 (1) of the Bombay Police Act, directing him to remove himself from Greater Bombay and move to his native town of Amritsar in Eastern Punjab. The order specified that the applicant must comply with its instructions within two days from the date of doing so and that he must travel by rail to Amrittar. On July 25, 1951, the applicant filed a petition with the Commissioner of Policing and prayed for an extension of time until he removed himself from Greater Burma, and on the basis of this petition, the Commissioner of Politicing granted him time until the end of the following year. On July 30, 1951, the applicants himself wrote a letter to the Commissary of Police stating that he did not wish to go to Amrisar and prayed that he may be allowed to stay on welfare outside of Burma but within the Burma state, and that if he be given a railway ticket from Dadar to that place. It appears that under this letter, the police took the applicants to welfare on the evening of the 30th of July, 1951, and left him there. Following this, the applicant initiated proceedings first before the criminal court of the High Court of Appeal under Letters Patent on the original side of the Billay High Court and then under Articles 226 and 228 of the Constitution, alleging the above-mentioned exclusion order and petitioning this Court for a writ of certiorari to quash it. Both these petitions were dismissed, and the applicant filed before this Court under Article 32 of the Constitution.
It has come to light that the fundamental rights enshrined in paragraphs (d) and (e) of Article 19 (1) of the Constitution have been violated by the extradition order.
Mr. Umrigar has argued before us, appearing in support of the petition, first that the order of commencement is wholly void because it is not in accord with the provisions of Section 27 (1) of the City of Bombay Police Act. His second argument is that the provisions of section 27 of the Constitution of the United Kingdom being in conflict with the Fundamental Rights enshrined in proviso (d) and (e) of Article 19 (1) of the Constitution, stand quashed under Article 13(1) of the Constitution. The last argument, though somewhat flimsily pleaded, is that the provision in section 27 (1) referred to above was discriminatory in its nature and was an offence against Article 14 of the Constitution;
With regard to the first point, it is not disputed on the part of the respondent that the order of departure, as passed by the Commissioner of Police on 23-7-1951, is not in strict conformity with the provisions of Section 27 (1) of the City of Bombay Police Act. In the order, the applicant was directed to remove himself from Greater Bombay but at the same time he has mentioned Amritsar as the place where he had to go. Section 7 (1) of the city of bombay police act provides as follows: -
"Whenever it appears to the Commissioner of Police,
(a) the movement or activity of any person in Greater London, is apprehended or calculated to cause fear, danger or damage to persons or property, or there are reasonable grounds to believe that this person is or is about to be engaged in committing an offence involving force or violence, or an offence punishable under Chapter XII, XVI or XVII of the Indian Penal Code, or at the instigation of any such offence, and when
Witnesses, in the opinion of the Commissioner, are not willing to come forward to testify in public against such persons because of their apprehension as to the safety of their persons or property;
(b). The Commissioner of Police, by an order in writing thereon, has provided for such persons... such person may be directed to remove himself or herself to a place outside the state or within the state and by such route and within such period as the Commissioner of Police shall determine and shall not enter the state or be Greater Bombay."
It is clear from this provision that there are two kinds of externment orders as invented by this sub-section; one, where the extern is directed from the Greater Bombay and the other where the external is required to remove himself from the State of Bombay. Within the first class the order has specified the place of departure, where the externe is required to leave himself and it must be indicated that by the way he is required to reach that place. On the other hand, when the extern is from the state of Bijapur, the extern may reside outside the state at any place of his choice and no place of residence may be mentioned or required.
The externment order in the case before us began with a direction to the petitioners to remove themselves only from Greater Bombay. It was 'mandatory' for the authority in such cases to specify the place where the outsider was to reside. In fact a place, namely Amritsar, was specified in the order, but since it was not within the state of Bombay, it was beyond the jurisdiction of the Commissioner of Police to name this place. The petitioner is argued, without some corrigendum, to have violated the order if it was wrong to specifically mention the place within the state where the petitioner was to live. On the other hand, the entire order is intended to indicate:
It may be noted that the intention of the Commissioner of Police was to expel the petitioner from outside the State of Bombay and this is evident from the fact that he was directed to go to Amritsar which is situated in another state. It is undoubtedly true that the Commissioner of Policing, in Bombay, had no authority to designate any place outside the state as the place of residence of outsiders and that this direction was void; but that direction certainly has a bearing on the question of the construction of the order, as it indicates that the real purpose of the order was to direct the outsider to remove himself not only from Greater Bombay but also from the State of Bijay. If this was the intention, then no place of residence was required. However, we need not go into further detail on this aspect of the matter, for we are of the view that whatever irregularities there may have been in the original order, the subsequent conduct of the petitioner which had the approval of the Commissioner Of Policing would have removed the defects. As stated earlier, on July 30, 1951, the petitioner himself wrote a letter to the Commission of Police asking for permission to stay in Kalyan which falls within the state of Bijaj. His request was accepted and the police took him to Kalyan on the evening of the 30th. We are of the opinion that, in the circumstances, the order made on July 23, 1951, may be construed as an order of expulsion from Greater Bijaj and though there was a mistake in the matter of the place where the outsider was ordered to remove himself, the mistake was rectified by the petitioner by choosing Kalyan as his place of residence and that choice has been accepted and implemented by the Police Department. We do not think that there is any material in reality on the first point raised by Mr. Sajib in this situation.
The second point raised by the learned counsel raises the question whether Section 27 (1) of the City of Bombay Police Act imposes restrictions on the fundamental right of a citizen, which is guaranteed under Article 19 (1) (d) of the Constitution and being in conflict with this fundamental right it is nil and void under Article 13 (1) of the Constitution. There is no doubt that the provisions of Section 7 (1) of the Bombay Act are made in the interest of the general public which is dangerous and
The question, therefore, is whether the restrictions imposed by this Act on a citizen's right to free movement fall within the ambit of Article 19 (5) of the Constitution; or, in other words, whether the restrictions are reasonable; it is quite true that the determination of the question as to whether the restriction imposed by the enactment of a law on the fundamental rights of a citizen referred to in Article 19 (1) (d) of the Constitution is reasonable or not within the meaning of Clause (5) will depend as much on the procedural part of the Act as on the substantive part thereof; the court will have to see in each case the circumstances and the manner in which the restrictions are imposed. The maximum period of an exclusion order made under Section 27 (1) of the Bombay Act is two years and the Commissioner of Police can always permit the outsider to enter the prohibited area before the expiry of that period. Considering the class of cases to which this sub-section applies and the fact that an extradition order under it is intended to be avoided, it is difficult to say that this provision is unreasonable. The Commissioner of Police may revoke an expulsion order in an appropriate case at any moment as he thinks fit, if in his opinion, the outsider's return to the area from which he was removed ceases to present any danger to the community. As to the procedure to be followed in such cases, Section 27 (4) of the Act provides that before passing an order of expulsion against any person, the Commissioner of Policing or any officer authorised by him shall inform such person, in writing, of the general nature of the material allegations against him and give such person a reasonable opportunity to explain these allegations. He is permitted to appear before an advocate or attorney and file a written statement for the purpose of clarifying his character and examining the witnesses. The only thing Mr. Umrigar has attempted to do about the propriety of this procedure is to hold that a suspect is not permitted to cross-examine witnesses who have testified against him and on whose evidence the trial was commenced.
In our opinion this in itself would not make the procedure unreasonable considering the admitted intention of the legislature in framing the law. The law is certainly an extraordinary one and it has been framed only for those exceptional cases where a witness is not willing to testify against some bad character in public out of fear of violence to their person or property whose presence in a particular area is a threat to the safety of the public residing there. This purpose would be completely destroyed if the right to confront or cross-examine these witnesses is given. The power to initiate proceedings under this Act is vested in a high and responsible officer and he is expected to act with caution and impartiality while discharging his duties under the law. This contention of Mr. Umrigar, therefore, must fail.
The last point made by Mr. Umrigar does not seem to make sense to us. It is true that a procedure different from what is laid down in the ordinary law is provided for certain classes of persons against whom action can be taken under Section 27 (1) of the City of Bombay Police Act, but the discrimination is based on a reasonable classification which is within the competence of the legislature to make. In view of the purpose for which the law is intended and the principles underlying it, a departure from the ordinary procedure may certainly be justified as the best means of giving effect to the intention of the legislature. In our opinion, therefore, there is no substance in the evidence and the same shall stand dismissed.
The appeal is rejected.
The applicant's name is P. K. Chatterjee.
Fix the grammar: The agent of the respondent: P. A. Mehta.
The judgment translated into the local language is limited in use and understanding by the litigant in the local language and cannot be used for any other purpose. For all practical and official purposes, the English version of the judgment shall be authentic and shall be applicable for the purposes of operation and enforcement.
