Mahavir Gope and others
Vs.
Harbans Narayan Singh and others.
[Mehar Chand Mahajan, Chandrashekhar Iyer and Vivian Bose are the judges,]
Bihar Tenancy Act, 1937, s. 5 (2), 20, 21 - "Juripeshgi" Lease - Lease by mortgagee for a term of 3 years - Lease in possession for more than 30 years - Acquiring right of acquisition - To take lease - Mortgagee's power to lease - Limitations - Transfer of property Act, (IV of 1882), s. 76 (a) and (e).
As a general rule a person cannot transfer or otherwise assign a title better than his own to another, and a mortgagor cannot therefore create an interest in the mortgaged property which his interest will ensure even after the termination of the mortgage. Moreover, the mortgagor cannot in any way do anything detrimental to the interest of the mortgagor during the subsistence of the mortgagee's law, such as by granting a lease which may enable the tenant to acquire a right of permanent possession of the land, thereby forfeiting the mortgagee's right of pawn.
The emergence of a tenancy right granted by a tenant to a tenant by prudent management, based on the nature of the land and the time required, or created by law, is an exception to the general. Rule, but falling within this exception the tenancy settlement by the tenant must be a fair and proper one. The exception shall not apply where the terms of the mortgage expressly prohibit the tenant from making any settlement on the land by the mortgagee, either expressly or by necessary means.
Where a "juripeshgi" lease deed contains the following conditions; "Let the lessees enter into the possession and possession of the portion left in the lease (being khudakhat land under their own cultivation), cultivate them, pay the rent retained year after year to us, the executors, and make suitable arrangements for the produce. Year after year" due to the tenant having interest and the qubooliyat executed by the tenant to whom the lands were leased by mortgage for 3 years refers to the lease deed and there is a clear provision that they (the tenants) will relinquish possession of the "tika" land at the expiry of the lease without claiming the lands as land they khudakhat:
Order: - The decision of the High Court confirms that the settlement is not bona fide and correct and that the successors (defendants) of the tenants have not acquired a permanent right of possession of the dead lands under the Bihar Tenancy Act though the lands were in the possession of the lessee and his heirs for more than 30 years after the expiry of the lease period.
The order further said that the defendants could not have acquired the right of possession under Section 20 and Section 21 of the Bihar Tenancy Act because the mortgagee is the "proprietor" or "term holder" or "term holder" and not the tenant and his heirs, therefore, "Section 5, subsection (2), of the said Act is disposed of." Tika
Manzil-Lal Bishwanath Shah Deo vs. Sheikh Mohiuddin (আই.এল.আর.24 Cal. 272), Babu Bairo Nath Roy vs. Shanke Pahan (আই.এল.আর.8 Pat. 31) and Binda Lal Pakrashi and others vs. Kalu Pramanik and others (আই.এল.আর.24 Cal. 708) are segregated.
Civil Application Jurisdiction: Civil Application No. 143 of 1951. Appeal by Special Appeal Application from Judgment and Decree dated March 23, 1950 to the Court of the High Court of Judicature at Patna (Reuben and Jamuar, Judges) Original Decree No. 206. Derived from a Decree of the Subordinate Judge of Patna dated January 31, 1946 in Title Suit No. 55/4 of 1946.
Syed Murtaza Fazal Ali appeared for the appellants.
N. C. Chatterjee (A. N. Sinha, with him) No 1 to 9 for the respondents.
বি.কে for the respondents.Sharan No 11 to 16.
The judgement of the court was delivered on 14 April 1952.
Justice Chandrashekhara Iyer - This is from a decree of the Patna High Court, a petition by the defendants which set aside a decree of the decree of the subordinate-judge court of Patna and the plaintiff's case for possession against the first party of the defendant is being called'Gops. "
The lands were khudakhat lands, partly belonging to the plaintiff first party and partly to Musamet Anaro Kuer, from whom the plaintiff second and third parties
Ownership rights are available. The plaintiff's first party ancestors had given a lease under Exhibit I (B) dated 28-9-1899 from 1307 Fasli to 1312 Fasli for six years of Rs 540. At the end of Fasli 1312, the payment of the poshagi was made in a single instalment. If there is no repurchase, the lease will remain in force until the payment is made. Musammat Anaro Kuer verbally gave Singh part of the lease on June 10, 1905, at the same address, for Rs 542 for three years. Lakshmandeo Singh, who is now represented by the defendant second party, thus made a settlement of his (8.26 acres or 13 bighas in all) land with one Ram Lal Gope for a fixed period of three years from the defendant first party's ancestor K Fasli 1315 to Fasli 1318. There was a patta on behalf of the tenants and a kabuliyat on behalf of the landlord. This was in 1908. The mortgage was repurchased in June 1942 by payment in the process under Section 83 of the Transfer of Property Act, when the plaintiffs went to take possession, they were resisted by the Gopes (Abadi first party) and after failing the criminal proceedings, the plaintiff filed the present suit. The subordinate judge dismissed it, stating that the Gopas were ryots who had acquired the right of permanent possession of the land as a result of the settlement by Lakhandeo Singh. During the appeal, the High Court quashed this decision and granted the plaintiff a decree of possession on the ground that the defendants were not ryots and did not have a permanent right of possession. This court granted special leave to the defendants to appeal.
The case was as an alternative to the defendant recovering the value of the land as compensation or indemnity from the second party if it was found that the defendant first party could not be dismissed. The trial court ordered this alternative claim and awarded compensation to the plaintiff at the rate of Rs 200 per bigha. The defendant second party appealed the matter to the High Court and succeeded. But we have nothing to do about it in the present appeal.
At trial, the plaintiffs allege and claim that the lands are their "jirat" land in money.
of Section 116 of the Bihar Tenancy Act and that the defendant first party could not similarly acquire any right of possession. The subordinate judge found against the dispute and ruled that they were the owner's khudakhat or "bakshat" land, where the right of possession could be acquired. He negativly denied the defendants'plea that they were their ancestral ryot land: he also held that there was no collusion between Singh and Ram Lal Gope even in the mortgagee Lakshand in the settlement of the land. The appeal hearing commenced in the High Court on the basis of the findings accepted by both parties.
It was held by the Privy Council in Bengal Indigo Company v. Rogbur Das (1) that "a" juripeshgi "lease is not a mere contract for cultivating land for a rent, but a security for the tenant for an advance." They went on to speak of the leases before them, finding that "the leases in question were merely contracts for cultivating land; but they were also intended to constitute, and constituted, a real and legitimate security for the tenant. The principal money which he had advanced, and interest thereon. Under them the tenant had possession, in part, not only of the cultivators, but their creditors paid their outstanding debts by their collateral." These words apply to our prior lease period; its dominant purpose was to provide a security for the advance loan and not to bring into existence any relationship of landlord and tenant.
The general rule is that a person may not transfer or otherwise assign a title better than his own to another. A mortgagor may not, therefore, create an interest in the mortgaged property that will be assured even after the expiration of his interest as a mortgagor. Moreover, the mortgagor, who takes possession of the mortgaged property, must manage it because a person of ordinary prudence would manage it if it were his own; and he must not commit any act of vandalism
(1) (1897) 24 Cal. 272.
or the property is permanently injurious; see section 76, subsections (a) and (e) of the Transfer of Property Act. It follows that he may grant the lease without exceeding the term of the mortgage; any lease granted by him must expire at the time of the repurchase. The mortgage is injurious to the interest of the mortgagee during the subsistence of the Act in some way such as by granting a lease which may enable the tenant to acquire a permanent or right of occupancy in the land thereby forfeiting the mortgagee's right of possession of the khas; this is an Act falling within the provisions of section 76, subsection (e) of the Transfer of Property Act.
The emergence of tenancy rights granted to a tenant by a tenant through prudent management is an entirely different matter based on the nature of the settlement and the land for the period required by the tenant. This is an exception to the general rule. The tenant cannot be evicted by the tenant even after the mortgage has been discharged. He can be an occupier ryot in some cases and a non-occupier ryot in others. But the tenancy settlement by the tenant must have been genuine. This exception will not apply in cases where the terms of the mortgage prohibit the tenant from making any settlement on the land, either expressly or by necessary means.
Where all the zamindari rights are given to the mortgagee, it may be inferred from the proper construction of the deed that he may enter into land settlements with the tenants in the ordinary course of management and the tenants may acquire certain rights in the land to the best of their ability. In the case of Manjil-lal Vishwanath Shah Deo v. Sheikh Mohiuddin (1) as a tenant there was a bona fide and correct settlement of the ryot land mortgaged by the mortgagee to the subjects and it was held that the mortgagee had no right to evict them after their acquittal. In Babu Bhairon Nath Roy v. Shanke Pahan (2), the earlier decision regarding "bakshat" land, and
(1) (1927) 8 Pat. এল.টি.92 | (2) (1929) আই.এল.আর.8 Pat. 31.
The "juripeshgi" lease did not contain any provision limiting the powers of the mortgagee lessee with respect to the settlement of tenants. The "khudakshat" land and "bakshat" land were in fact the nature of royalty land which came into the possession of the owner by surrender, relinquishment or purchase.
In the present case, we have the following clause in the lease deed: "The lessee's lease (being" khudakhat "land under his own cultivation) is to enter into the possession and possession of the portion, cultivate them, pay them. We have 2 annas, executor, as the rent reserved for years, and appropriate his goods year after year by virtue of his having a lessee interest." This term disqualifies the lessee from identification of the tenant in the mortgaged land. Ram Lal Gope, the first party among the grandfather defendants, who executed the kabuliyat in 1908 must have known about the ownership rights of the lessee and the terms and conditions under which Lachhandeo Singh held the lands under the registered "juripeshgi" lease deed, and perhaps that is why the lessee not only accepted, but granted the lease for 3 years, but also explicitly pledged to relinquish possession of the "theka" land after the lease expired without claiming that the "theka" lands were his old cast land. His kabuliyat (Exhibit 11) actually indicates Lachhandeo Singh's lessee interest. In view of these facts, the learned judges of the High Court have stated that they were not prepared to accept that the settlement was bona fide and correct or that the lessee was within his rights in settling these lands.
A strong reliance was placed for the appellants on the decision of the Full Bench in Binad Lal Pukrashi and Others v. Kalu Pramanik and Others (1) where it was held that a person engaged in possession of land as a ryot even becomes a non-acquirer by an intruder. Bengal was protected from ryots and expulsions within the meaning of Section 5, sub-section, 2 of the Tenancy Act. But this decision has been taken subsequently
(1) (1893) আই.এল.আর.20 Cal | 708.
In several instances, it has been explained that on the very basis of this proposition, the rights actually acquired by the parties must have come from those whom they rightly and rightly believed had the right to take possession of the land. Notwithstanding the fact that the lease deed in favour of Singh and the confession of Ram Lal Gope were recited, this is not the case here.
Sections 20 and 21 of the Bihar Tenancy Act were referred to by the learned counsel for the appellants during his arguments and he pointed out that the land in this case was continuously occupied by his clients and their predecessors from 1908 to 1942, when an attempt was made to evict them. In order to invoke these sections, we must be in a position to hold that the appellants were "disposed ryots." "Ryot" is defined in sub-clause 2 of section 5 to mean "a person who has acquired the right to hold land for the purpose of cultivation by himself or by members of his family....." Sub-section 3 provides that a person shall not be deemed to be a ryot unless he holds the land immediately under the owner or immediately under a term-holder. In Lakhnadeo Singh was not a "proprietor" which means that a person owned, be it a chassie. Or for his own benefit, an estate or part of an estate: he was only a mortgagee. Or he was not a term-holder or sub term-holder, as he did not comply with the definition given in sub-clause (1). In section 5, namely, a person who acquired the right to hold land from the owner or from another term-holder for the purpose of collecting rent or for the purpose of bringing the land under cultivation by setting up a tenant on the land. Since this is the case only shows that the lands were under the cultivation of the plaintiff and that they were given into the possession of the mortgagee so that he could cultivate them himself. Therefore, Ram Lal Gope could not claim that he was a settled ryot of the village and that under the Act he had secured the right of occupancy of the land. Which he had taken on lease from Singh in Lakhnadeo.
The last insistence on the lease was an oral transaction admittedly by Mrs. Anaro Ku and there was no evidence of any injunction against the settlement with the tenants as long as her share (3.97 acres) was attached and would stand separately from the rights of the parties in respect of this area as regards the rights relating to 4 acres and 29 cents in favour of the first plaintiff. This opinion was not taken up in the court below where the two leases granted to Singh by Lakshanda were also dealt with as if they were part of one and the same transaction, the rights and liabilities, whatever they may be, being identical. We cannot allow this opinion.
As a result, the decree of the High Court is confirmed and the appeal is dismissed with costs for the plaintiff-respondents. There will be no order for costs for the other respondents.
The appeal was rejected.
On behalf of the appellants: এস.পি.Verma.
No.1 to 9 on behalf of Respondents: M M Sinha.
No.11 to 16 on behalf of the Respondents: K. L. Mehta.
The judgment translated into the local language is for limited use and understanding by the litigant in the mother tongue and cannot be used for any other purpose. For all practical and official purposes, the English version of the judgment shall be authentic and shall be applicable for the purposes of operation and enforcement.
