Ram Naranjing Singh
versus
Delhi State and others.
[J.B.I.E.)
Criminal trials are not allowed to stop Assamila - legality of the detention, 1 88, 88, Article 3 - Hebias Corpus Corpus.
Hebias Corpus should consider the legal or otherwise legality of detention during the return of the court and not according to the agency.
If he wanted to postpone a case, he would have to send the accused under custody to Reemandezdo with a warrant, and he would also order that every court without the High Court must be written. In which a judicial court had suspended a case, but there was no record that he was charged with such an order to keep the accused in custody.
Commands: There was illegal detention after the ban.
Those who call others to deprive them of their personal freedom, which they consider to be their responsibility, must act strictly and loyally.
The main judiciary; the petition number 5 in 1 93.
In the nature of Hebias Corpus, the petition is under Article 3 of the Constitution for a solution.
Joy Gopal Seth and Bed Bass (S. K. Kapur, A. K. D. Chona, R. R. R. R. Rutek and A. N. Senha with them)
C. K. Duffiri, head of state-in-law for the Northorel of India (with him, Mahta, Mahta).
1.5. March 1. court ruling is given by the Chief Justice.
Manonalitist C.J. - This is Ram Naranjing Singh with four gentlemen, like Dr. S.P. Mukherjerey, Sri N.C.T.T.T.T.T.T.T., scholar Nandal Kejriwal, and scholar Bhud, who is applied to the case.
These men were arrested on the evening of March 6th, 95, and are now judged on charges of violating the order of meetings and marches in questioned areas, under Section 1 of India's Criminal Code.
Their detention is based on two Rem. Orders, accused of passed by the extra district of Delhi by Mr. Tashkelon; around 8 March, 6th, 9, 9, and another on March 9, 9, 9, 9, 95, where a petition was filed in front of the trial, in front of the trial of the trial of the judge, Bibias Corpus Corpus.
Mr. Shetty asked us questions about laws and events before the applicants, but we consider it unnecessary to enter these questions because now the first order of Remorgan is on March 6, even though it was valid that it was a March 9th and no longer imposed.
The final evening, at 5-2pm, the court's registration handed four back to the wires, while it ordered the accused to be locked up in the judiciary lock-up on March 6 and to appear in court on March 9, 9.
In a question of Hebias Corpus's case, when the relevant men were legitimized or otherwise asked, it is clear that these documents are not really necessary, despite our clear instructions. We have no command of March 1.
Other people feel invited to deprive them of their personal freedom, which they consider to be a duty, the form of laws and regulations that have to be strictly and faithfully not to do, not to do so, but to get released, and to be released immediately.
The petition is approved.
The petitioner agent: Public Action Ray.
Northern Agent: G HV.
---
For the limited use of the local language and the succinct verdict, it cannot be used in the mother's language and in any other purpose, in all practical and public purposes, the English version of the verdict will be published and applied for effective and effective purposes.
