Nain Sukh and another.
Vs
State of Uttar Pradesh
As well as other
[Chief Justice, Ramon y Cajal; Miss Sacramento, Sr.
Ghulam Hazzar and Baba Wazir]
The Constitution of India, 1949, Articles 15 and 16 (1), -Elections to Municipalities - Elections on the basis of Electoral Registration - Validity - Application of laws under Article 16 has been filed to prevent the elected candidates from sitting in the Board--Guardianship - Providers of remedies.
The petitioners, who are residents of a municipality, allege that they have been deprived of their right to exercise their vote and to seek their election as candidates in certain by-elections to the Municipal Board, because those by-lections were held on communal grounds which are against the Constitution, and all these elections which apply for writs under Article 32 of the Constitution of this Act to prevent the elected candidates from acting as members of the Board and to prevent the District Magistrate and the Civil Judge from holding any meetings of the Board:
Order. - Whereas a law which makes separate elections for members on the basis of electors from different religious communities is contrary to Article 15 (1) of the Constitution and the elections held pursuant to such law shall be deemed to be void as in Clause 4, the right under which the petitioners claim to be rate-payers in the case of a municipality that a board should be legally constituted and that persons who could not be elected should not be added to the meetings of the board which are outside the scope of Article 32 of the Constitution, even if it existed, was not a fundamental right conferred by Part III of the Constitution.
"There is an alleged violation of Articles 15 (1) and 16 of the fundamental rights of the petitioners, that the exercise of discrimination against them was which they never intended to exercise in practice and did not take any action even after being in a position to do so and therefore, the petitioners do not have a right to any remedy under Article 32 of the Constitution," the order added.
Original judgment: Petition No. 69 of 1953.
Petition under Article 32 of the Constitution for the enforcement of Fundamental Rights
Isaacs (Jai Rama Rao, with him) is the appellant.
K. B. Asthana for respondent No. 1.
.Sinha (Patnaik, with him) for respondent No.
1953. May 22. The judgment of the court was delivered.
by the Chief Justice, Patanjali Shetty - is a petition under Article 32 of the Constitution seeking protection of the fundamental rights of the petitioners under Article 15 (1) against the alleged violations by the respondents. The petitioners are three residents of Etah town in Uttar Pradesh. They allege that in the by-elections to the Etah Municipal Board held on November 2, 1951, December 8, 1951 and March 17, 1952, in which the respondents were elected as 4, 11 and 12 respectively, the petitioners were deprived of their right to exercise their vote and seek their election as a candidate, as those by-elections were held on a communal basis contrary to the Constitution. They also allege that the nomination of respondent 3 as a member of the Board by the Government was an illegal exercise of its power, as the interest in nominating the respondent 3 to represent it on the Board was substantially made out. They have filed co-warranties, mandamus and other appropriate writs seeking the enforcement of the orders or seeking orders of show cause to the respondent 3, 4 and 11 respectively on the basis of which they are acting as members of the Board and to restrain them from acting in this manner. The petitioner has sought writ of the District Magistrate and the Civil Judge of Etath, directing them not to hold or permit to be held any meeting of the Board which is said to be constituted unlawfully.
Now, it cannot be seriously argued that a law has been selected on the basis of its holdings and not on the ground of members belonging to different religious communities which offends against Article 15 (1) of the Constitution which runs thus:
"15. (1) The state shall not discriminate against any citizen on the ground of religion, race, caste, sex, place of birth or any of them."
This Constitutional mandate on the state is clearly extending political and other rights based on religion against any citizen and any election held in terms of the Constitution following such law, subject to Clause 4), must be held to be void as being contrary to the Constitution. But the question is whether the petitioners are entitled to the remedy sought in this petition under Article 32.
It is true, as has been pointed out in the Crossroads case (1), that in some cases Article 32 provides a more effective remedy than Article 226 through the High Court. The scope of this remedy, however, is clearly narrow in that it is limited only to the exercise of the fundamental rights conferred by Part III of the Constitution. For example, any right, which the petitioners as rate-payers may have in the municipality that legally demands insistence on the formation of the Board and that the defendants Nos. 3, 4, 11 and 12 who are not properly elected or nominated members, should not be allowed to participate in the proceedings of the Board, is beyond the scope of Article 32, because even if such a right existed it would not have been a fundamental right.
The learned counsel for the petitioners, however, contended that the fundamental right conferred by Article 15 (1) on the petitioners as citizens of India was held on a ground which was violated by the discriminatory selection of the petitioners on the basis of their religion, so that it debarred them from exercising their franchise with all the candidates and contesting the elections without considering the reservation of seats on a communal basis.
The learned counsel further states that the limitation of the constituency on communal grounds was also a denial of equality to the petitioners in respect of their political rights and a violation of their fundamental rights in that respect. under Article 14. We are unable to admit these disputes.
It is clear that the fundamental right conferred by Article 15 (1) is delegated to a citizen as an individual and constitutes an undertaking against his being subject to discrimination in respect of the rights, privileges and immunities normally associated with him as a citizen. It is not the case of the applicants that any discrimination is now being practised or threatened against them. Their complaint is that the method of election by the individual electorates constituted on communal lines involves discrimination against them in respect of constituencies other than those reserved for their respective communities in which they could not exercise their right to vote or to stand as a candidate. There is no suggestion that the applicants intended to ensure those rights by removing the impediment and taking appropriate measures to hold the election in accordance with the Constitution. In fact, the applicants agreed to the election conducted under the old system of separate electorates and considered that no discrimination had been exercised against them until a motion of no confidence had been moved against the former chairman, who had thereby lost his seat. That movement has been carried on. Thus, the fundamental rights that they have been violated under Articles 15 (1) and 14, i.e., the discrimination prevailing against them, of which they now complain, relate to rights that they did not in fact intend to exercise and did not take any action to assert, when they had the opportunity to do so, and they have now lost this opportunity. Mr. Isaacs, however, argues that, as the election of respondent Nos. 4, 11 and 12 was void, they are no better than the squatters, and that the applicants have the right to prevent the defendants from acting as members of the municipal board. We have already pointed out that the applicant may claim such redress in proceedings as a rate-payer for the municipality, but there is no question of enforcing the fundamentals of the applicants in this claim under Article 15 (1) or Article 14. There is not yet such a place to seek redress on that basis against defendant No. 3 who is only a nominated member.
The applicants appear to have misunderstood their remedy and their application must fail under Article 32. This application is dismissed with costs, one at a time.
The appeal was rejected.
Agent for the petitioners: K.L. Mehta.
Agent of Defendant No. 1: . .
Agent of Defendant No. 4: Vera.
The judgment translated into the local language is limited in use and understanding by the litigant in the local language and cannot be used for any other purpose. For all practical and official purposes, the English version of the judgment shall be authentic and shall be applicable for the purposes of operation and enforcement.
