Importer and Manofactures Limited.
versus
Firoz from Orrooz with Taroper
And others.
[Mah's Moon is mass, slave and girl Justice]
The Hart of Bombay, hotels, and housing rates are the impact of the law, 1947, Article 268, Ezar, for the use and treatment of householders and op-eds for occupations and occupations.
While Izarar, a flathouse in Bombay city, had a condition that the rent can't be assigned without prior consent and renting the rental conditions, that condition violates the flat contract, and the housekeeper filed a complaint against the owner, and his wife, and his wife, and her assistants, to the courts, and to ask for compensation, and to demand that the court had no concern with the court, because she was in charge of the shame of being in charge of the security hotel, as she was not in charge of renting or renting the law, but between the rent and the law:
It was held (i) that the suit was clearly occupied and the compensation demand was mere engagement;
(i) Law Article 26 has authorized the courts not only to entertain and seek entertainment and justice for rents or occupations; but also to "responsorize or challenge any demand from the law or any other law" and Article 28 was so wide that the question between the sub-sidier and the subserators was enough:
(i) In any case, though, even though sub-ejada was not a necessary side - she was on a good side for the case, and the nature of a case like this does not change the nature of a party case and the importance of a case under Article 28...
Civil appeal authority: The verdict and petition from the Sput Coup of 1948 court, 1055/43, was approved by Bombay Smol Kojes court court appeal No.355/1950, and was filed in Bombay High Court with permission from the Rivial petition No. 1119/1951.
B. H. Lulla for the appealers.
The defendant No.1,2 and 3.
The court ruling was issued by the judge on December 10, 1952.
- It's the start of a certificate from the start of the lord's coronation application No. 1119 and an appeal filed by a special permission from the court on January 25, 1952. It's for the third cell of the house in Coiler Hill, where they were expelled and caused by the loss of 370s on November 1, 2013, when they gave up a case to put up on the keys on the door of the keys, and on July 1, 19th, on the second hand, on July 1st, on January 1nd, on the third hand, on the picks of the keys, and on the third hand.
The only reason for us is that the Smal Kajes court has no right to judge this case, and the relevant portions of the Law Article 26 are:-
"No matter what law or whatever it is, and whether it is, because of the amount of demand or in some other way, it does not include cases or actions within its power,
(A) In Greater Bombay, Small Coz Court, Bombay,
(It's...
(B) ...........,
The part has the right to decide any case, whether to rent or receive an occupation, to judge, and to try, and to apply any application of the law, which is either to demand or to make a decision; and to any court such cases, actions, or demands.
It was not controversial that IRI’s laws apply to property, and the appealer’s argument was that the case was not between the housekeepers and the hiredr and
As long as it's used and demanded compensation for the capture, it's not a case for renting and therefore, Article 26 doesn't have a application and Smil Coz's court case in question. In response to this application, this case needs to be mentioned, as the owner of the House owner, after they were asked by the Secretary's trust owner, the third cell owner, whose owner's rights were issued to the owner, since he was the first hired owner, or the owner of the owner of the owner of the master, which is the master of the master, issued on the master's transfer from the license on Jan. On the 12th of the second time, on the second time, on January 1st. Then, on the 10th day of the key, it was rejected by the master's 10th day, and then called on the master's 10th.
In paragraph 14 and 15, Detainees are based on evictions, just as (1) the first defendant was reported to be unfair, illegal, and impassioned by the second defendant.
( 2) The defendants who were reasonable and reasonable enough to need places that were useful for the use of both benefits and occupations. Theor also prays that both defendants are ordered to evacuate and not let both sides pay back their debts from November 1, 370 in order to get their due compensation every month.
The protesters do not claim to be defined as the 5(11), as defined by the law, that the appealer (the second defendant) is a "champer", while the appealer cannot deny that a case between the defendant and the first defendant, a case between the victim and the victim, and that the courts, under Article 28 of the Law, is the only court, which allows the process to be adopted, between a house and a hired man.
No law allows the courts to hold out any claim that the rental area was restored or that the owner's ownership of the patient's property would be in place, but that's the reason they asked for "the law or any explanation." There is no reason to assume that there is a reason to be a claim or a question of either the person who owns a house servant or the hiredr." In any case, if the employer claims that the master can be given the person's right to receive the case, or if he has a right to the law to receive the owner, there is no reason for the person to receive the owner to ask for the person to receive the keys or for the owner to receive them." This is the reason that the law allows for the person to receive the person to receive the master's keys, or for the person to be given by asking, and that the person to receive the master's consent or because he is not the master's consent or because he is the master's consent.
Under which they demand protection under the law, if he is the owner of the case, it could be added to the case from the beginning of the case, if the court thinks it is appropriate to do so.
The appeal is dismissed.
Agents of the appeal: Rasander Narin.
In protest, 1, 2 and 3. Agents: R.A. Gügrat.
------
1952
November 7.
