The Symonish Moon — Anand
versus
The Union of India
[The Greatest Justice] Mr. Tsatly, Mukheria, Vivian Bos, Gum Hassan and the Prophetate Justice]
In India's Constitution, 1950, Article 14, 16,11 - 311 civil servants appointed for 5 years - a reconstitution of employment on temporary employment - a month-end of a notice - Basic Rights - Central Civil Service, 1949.
The petitioner was appointed in a five-year agreement by the Indian government to restore his contract with the Ministry of Labor and Employment, and when he was about to complete his contract, the government proposed a new proposal for him to keep his job in temporary status and employment terms on the condition that he would be led by the Central Civil Service Act, which ended with a notice of a month's agreement, and he was continued to receive a month notice, but he was given a month-long notice by the constitution, as well as an appeal for the King of the Republic of11 (14th).
The court ruling (i) did not apply to Article 311 as it is not a matter of suspension or removal of the job, but a common difference between the cancellation of the contract by a warrant.
The previous usually useless to future employment, but not next;
(i) Paragraph 14 had no application because he did not suffer from discrimination and did not avoid protecting any law that others in the same way might claim;
(i) Paragraph 16 was equally undeterred because the petitioner was not denied equal opportunities to appointment or employment, but was treated like any other person who was offered temporary employment under these conditions.
The state can enter into temporary employment agreements and impose special conditions in each case if they are not in agreement with the constitution, and those who choose to comply and enter these conditions are bound by them, even as the state is bound..
Department of Justice: petition (201) for fundamental rights under Article 32 of the Constitution.
For the applicationr and who is Varma and GC Mathur.
M. C. Tailvad, India's Attorney-Jenerel, with the answer.
On March 13, 1953, the Court ruled
Judge Bes. it is under Article 32 of the Constitution where the petitioner wants to understand his basic rights under Article 14 and 161). It was argued by the individual apperative enough in length.
In October 1945, the petitioner was appointed by the Indian government to appoint a five-year agreement to restore the labor minister’s labour contract, which was selected by the Federal Public Service Commission, after a short training, on January 19, 1946 as the Manager of Sub-Actual Employment Exchange, and was later appointed.
The service agreement was supposed to end in 1950, but shortly before the end of the term, the Indian government offered him a new offer, which was mentioned in the letter on June 30, 1950, to continue her job after the end of the contract, including the following:
"(3) Other terms of the service: After you complete your agreement, you will be allowed to continue your positions temporarily for the term of rehabilitation and employment and to be controlled by the Central Civil Services (in temporary service), until you become a permanent civil servant."
In the letter, he was asked to inform the Ministry of Labor if he was willing to continue his job on the condition and admitted that he had accepted the consent and continued his job, not a permanent government employee, though he had argued that he was in five years of agreement and that he was appointed for work, such as rehabilitation and employment, was only a temporary action.
In these rules, the rules are 5 important, which is the following:
"5.(a) job of a temporary government employee who is not a semi-term job, his job will be held accountable for any time with a written notice by government employee, or employer.
((() This notice will be a month or so unless the government and government officials agree."
In accordance with the rules of the semi-term services, it is clear that the application does not come into a class, as well as a fact-finded fact that there is no contract between the notice and the government, thus, according to this law, the delivery of the application's other services could end in a single month's notice, which would end on November 25, 1950, and which was told that the service would end on December 1, 1950, when the end of December 1, 1950, the end of December 1.
During the debate, a large field was covered, and if it was not argued again, we would have dealt more completely with debates than the employer's satisfaction.
The petition is under Article 32(1) of the Constitution and must be shown that a basic right has been violated; it is argued that violations of rights are given by Article 14 and 16(1).
At the beginning of paragraph 14, it must show that the application has been discriminated against in some legal exercise or enjoyments that are equally open to others, saying that rights are violated by 311, he says that this paragraph has been fired or removed without protection, according to us, Article 311 has no implementation.
Because it's removed from the suspended or downed service, or it's not down position, it's just a common deal being concluded under a notice.
In India, services have long been guaranteeing and protection against the sharp decline of position in India, under Article 240 of the Indian government, the protections were limited, under the current constitution, which, under the third part, was removed from the job.
The XII section of the regulations related to civil service (constitution, control and appeal) include Article 49 of the XIII area which determines the order of service members that may be destabilized and malnourished, including seven of them, expelled from office, down from office, and fired from employment.
Then follows an explanation:
"Enough."
A man under the agreement, according to the terms of his agreement, is not the result of the money or the sacking of the rules.
Article 311, used in the same sense, follows that the paragraph does not apply here and therefore there is no question of discrimination that wants protection for the "law".
What he offered was free to accept or reject like any other person under the law.
Article 16(1) is not equally relevant. The whole agreement remains in effect. When the application's first agreement was completed, he was not a permanent government employee and was not required to hire him or continue to hire him.
Such limitations are free to make a special agreement with the Service Committee, such as any other employer who is assigned to work in temporary nature.
Topics related to the legality of the case are mentioned, but we do not express any opinion about whether the application has other rights that he can apply in other ways, we are acting under 32 paragraphs to enforce a basic right and we decide that no basic right was violated.
When first argued about the issue, we decided that we would not order the cost but now that we insist on resuming the petition case and calling the wise Attorney-Zerrell the second time, we have no choice but to reject the appeal.
The petition is dismissed.
The petitioner's agent: Rasander Narin.
Answerer agent: G HV.
---
For the limited use of the local language and the succinct verdict, it cannot be used in the mother's language and in any other purpose, in all practical and public purposes, the English version of the verdict will be published and applied for effective and effective purposes.
