1952
December
Bishwamitra Press Office
Vs.
Employees of the Bishwamitra Press.
State of Uttar Pradesh - Intervenor.
[Mehar Chand Mahajan, Das, Justice and Bhagwati, Justice.]
The Uttar Pradesh Industrial Disputes Act, 1947, subsections.3 and 4 - Uttar Pradesh General Provisions Act, 1904, section.10 - Industrial Affairs Tribunal, the time limit fixed by a "court" for delivering a judgment is declared on a holiday - the working day after the judgment - the validity of the judgment.
The time fixed for delivering judgment under the Uttar Pradesh Industrial Disputes Act, 1947, ended on June 9, 1951. The government extended the period till June 30, 1951. June 30 was a public holiday and July 1 was a Sunday and the Industrial Disputes Tribunal pronounced its judgment on July 2:
It has been held that the Industrial Affairs Tribunal which is a court under the Uttar Pradesh Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 to which a dispute is assigned, under Section 10 Uttar Pradesh General Provisions Act, 1904 and, since June 30 and July 1 were holidays, gave the judgment on July 2 was not invalid on the ground that it was not delivered within the stipulated time.
Civil Application Jurisdiction: Civil Application No. 65 of 1952. appealed to the Labour Appeal Tribunal at Calcutta on the basis of a judgment dated November 17, 1951 in Appeal No. Cal-280, dated 1951.
কে.পি.Khaitan (Sangeharnam Das) on behalf of the appellant.
K. B. Asthana for the defendants.
Gopalji Mehrotra for the intervener.
The judgment of the court was delivered by Justice Bhagwati on December 2, 1952. - This is an application by special leave seeking certain amendments against the decision taken by the State Industrial Tribunal, Uttar Pradesh upholding the judgment of the Labour Appellate Tribunal, Kolkata.
An industrial dispute arose between the petitioner, Vishwamitra Press Office, Kanpur, and the Kanpur Samachar Patra Karmachari Union, Kanpur, representing the employees of the respondent, Vishwamitra Press, regarding the alleged removal of some workers on the pretext of cost-cutting. The industrial dispute regarding the removal was imposed on the Industrial Tribunal through a notification dated April 24, 1951. The time for delivering the judgment ended on June 9, 1951, and on June 9, 1951, another notification was issued to extend the time for delivering the judgment until June 30, 1951. June 30, 1951, was a public holiday and July 1 was a Sunday. The Industrial Tribunal delivered its judgment on July 2, 1951, and it was unanimously announced in court that day. Although the Uttar Pradesh government thought that the judgment was expired and null and void, on July 18, 1951, a notification was issued to extend the period until July 3, 1951. This judgment was contested before the Labour Appeal Tribunal. The Labour Appeal Tribunal declared the petitioner's dispute negative. The petitioner filed a special appeal for which it was granted by this court on December 21, 1951, with the following limitations:
(1) The Government had no power to extend the time for delivering the judgment after the expiry of the period initially prescribed and the judgment delivered by the judge after this period is unlawful, ultra vires, void and void.
(2) Subject to any reason, the State Government had extended the time for delivering the judgment till June 30, 1951 and the judgment of the Judge made after that date is liable to be set aside.
(3) That the time extended by the Government on the 21st day of July, 1951, even after the time previously extended had expired, is, ultra vires, and cannot be an invalid judgment and valid judgment. "
The industrial dispute arising between the appellant and the respondent was imposed by the Government of Uttar Pradesh on the Industrial Tribunal for exercising the powers conferred by Section 3 and 4 of the Uttar Pradesh Industrial Disputes Act, 1947. The Government of Uttar Pradesh exercised the powers conferred by Section 3 (d) of the said Act to issue an order and impose the same on the Industrial Tribunal for adjudication of the said industrial dispute. Paragraph 16 of that order read as under: -
"The Tribunal or the Judge shall hear and pronounce its decision within a period of 40 days (excluding the holidays observed by the courts subordinate to the High Court) from the date on which the dispute is impugned by the State Government., and shall as soon as may be thereafter give a copy thereof to the parties to the dispute and to such other persons or agencies as the State Government may direct in writing directly.
Provided that the State Government may from time to time extend the said period. "
Article 9 which sets out, inter alia, the powers and functions of the Tribunal: -
"(9) When it is promulgated, the decision must be in writing and it must be promulgated unanimously in court and must be signed by the member or members of the tribunal with the date in accordance with the case."
It was not in dispute before us that the original period fixed pursuant to paragraph 16 above had expired on June 9, 1951 and the Government of Uttar Pradesh had validly extended the period till June 30, 1951. It was, however, contended that the Industrial Tribunal ought to have given its award on June 30, 1951, and not on July 2, 1951, as has been done. It was urged that the provision to exclude holidays observed by the subordinate courts of the High Court which has been made pursuant to paragraph 16 above is not applicable when the period was extended up to a particular date. It would apply only if the period is extended by a specified number of days when the holidays are to be excluded in the manner mentioned for the purpose of calculation of those days. The Government of Uttar Pradesh having extended the period till June 30, 1951, it was submitted that the award should have been completed by June 30, 1951 and not later and since it was made on July 2, 1951, it was out of time and illegal.
This argument may have gained prominence for its interpretation of section 10 of the Uttar Pradesh General Provisions Act, 1904. That section clarifies: -
"Where, by law of a unitary province, any act or proceeding is directed or taken or allowed to be taken in any court or office on a specified day or within a prescribed time, then, if the court or office is closed on that day or on the last day of the prescribed time, in that case the act or proceeding shall be deemed to have been done or taken in due time if it is done or taken on the day after the opening of the court or office."
The Industrial Court was closed on June 30, 1951, which was declared a public holiday. July 1, 1951, was a Sunday and it was eligible for the Industrial Court to announce its decision at a later date. The day after which the Industrial Court was open, i.e. July 2, 1951. Initially therefore the verdict was announced on July 2, 1951, which was well in time.
The only point pleaded before us by Mr. Khaitan, counsel for the petitioner, is that the Industrial Court is not a court under Section 10 of the Uttar Pradesh General Provisions Act, 1904. According to his submission "court" can only mean a court in the classification of civil courts in the State and an industrial court does not fall within that category. We are unable to accept this contention of Mr. Khaitan. The Uttar Pradesh Industrial Disputes Act, 1947, was an Uttar Pradesh Act. The General Order dated March 15, 1951, which was introduced for the assistance of the industrial dispute for adjudication and the manner in which it was to be adjudicated inter alia states paragraph 3 (d) of the Act and paragraph 9 (9) of the General Order issued by the Government of Uttar Pradesh in exercise of the powers conferred on it and the same was declared by the Industrial Provisions Tribunal to be unanimous in the Court and we are unable to understand how it can be held that the Industrial Tribunal was not a court under Section 10 of the Uttar Pradesh General Provisions Act, 1904. If the Industrial Tribunal is thus a court under Section 10 of the Uttar Pradesh General Provisions Act, 1904 and if the court, by reason of its being closed on June 30, 1951 and July 1, 1951, the decision can be pronounced by the said Industrial Court on the day after that, that is, July 2, 1951, on which it was open.. Therefore in our opinion, the decision pronounced on July 2, 1951, was well within time and was valid and binding on the parties.
The above decision is the determinant of this application, and therefore the application will be dismissed with costs.
The appeal was rejected.
On behalf of the petitioner: বি.পি.Maheshwari.
On behalf of the Respondents and Interveners: সি.পি. red.
The judgment translated into the local language is for limited use and understanding by the litigant in the mother tongue and cannot be used for any other purpose. For all practical and official purposes, the English version of the judgment shall be authentic and shall be applicable for the purposes of operation and enforcement.
