Poptlal Shah
versus
The Kingdom of reason for these events is not the end of the present system of things.
Union of India and others-traffickers.
[Mincial Justice, Muxia, Vavian Bos, Gulam Hassan, and Vast Justice]
The Mandrage Sein Law (IX of 1939), Article 2, 3 (1947-adjusted) is "in the province", meaning to be taxed by the product's property lies outside the province.
Under the 1939-Secret Coin Law, the Mardraz Act, which was set up before the amendments to the Mardaz XV in 1947, is the fact that the sales agreement entered the province of Madádraz.
88
There was no transaction that was made in another province where property was accepted, within the province of Madádraz cannot be imposed under the law.
Although a provincial parliament could not pass a tax code which would be mandatory for any other part of India, it would have been better for a state to impose a law on complete transaction out of the province if it had a proper deal and a real regional relationship between the tax province.
The title and the proposal, whatever their value is, is an aid in the construction of a chain code, certainly focusing on the wishes and plans of the Parliament and the expansion of the laws.
It is a fixed rule to ensure legal purposes that all elements of a law must be together and consider in the light of every word, phrase or phrase and purpose.
The Mother’s High Court's verdict has been canceled.
The Criminal Commission of Justice: No. 92 Criminal appeals in 1952.
On August 29, 1952, the High Court of Judikcher of Justice and Order (NA): Article 132 of the Constitution of Rajamanna and Venchtarama A.N.) under Article 132 of the Indian Constitution (1), and the appeal was issued by the 1952 Criminal Court, 129, which dates back to the 138th of the 1950 C.E.C.C.A.E.C.A.A.C.A.C.A.A.E.A.A.P.A.P.A.A.A.A.P.A.A.A.P.A.A.P.A.A.A.A.A.P.P.A.P.A.P.A.A., court-E., was issued with a court order to be issued in the 25th day after a court decree against the Court of Justice.P.
With B. Somayay (C. R. Potvi Ramon) on behalf of the appator.
Supporting the Norther, V.T. Chit, Madrej's Advoke-Gerrell (V. Raghnbon and Alladi Kuppumy).
MC. Tilvad, Attorney-Jenerel for India (GNJ and P.A. M. M. M. M. M. M.
BK.P.Synha for the kingdom of Bihar.
S.M.Crick, side with the Punjabi Advoke General (M.L. S. Shetty), the Punjab state.
A.M. Somnath Air, Advoke-Jürel in the state of Mohtith.
Who can't believe in the northern state.
With TN.S. Subramn Iir, Advoke-Cuerel of TRavaco-Cochin (M.M. Krishna Pillai and Balak Ii), for the state of Tranvanco.
V.N. Shetty for the state of M.C.
Hossein Kassam Dada (India) is one of the few who have been sentenced to death.
He ruled by the Court on March 30.
Justice Mukheria - this appeal, which is based on a Shasel of 134(1) and Article 132 of the Constitution, comes before us, in accordance with the appeal of the Madaaz High Court prosecutor to the 1952 Criminal Court's appeal to 129 judges, the wise judge received a court appeal on February 25, 1952, in response to a court order to sell the Madhakorate Act, which would be paid for 15 thousand for crimes under the law.
The appealr is a company partner of merchants called "Indo-Malian Trade Company", whose headquarters is in the city of Madaaz and is also sold and bought by peanut oil, Sagor and Kirana products. For the time, on April 1, 1947, the company was charged with selling the Madaz IX, and paid 371,71,71,71 for its failure to pay the same money, and 15 cents. The same charges were filed under the law.
Both sides seem to have taken the position in front of the High Court, based on the information mentioned above, that the sales could be considered undecided by both sides, but the tax could be applied to them, otherwise, not because of the examination of whether they were sold or sold within the province. The appeal was in part of the dispute because the petitioner was to sell the property in Kolkata, on the other hand, where the sell property was sold to the city where the owners were expected to sell the company's property was sold, since the company's property was sold to the company's office and the owners were sold out of the company's owners, while the company was expected to sell it to be sold out of the company.
According to academic judges, both legal and popular money is legal, in legal sense, and in this sense, it imports the property of goods and is used in the sale of products. However, it is popularly, it means that it is used in the law to sell business.
The authenticity of the decision that was challenged before us and in support of the appeal, Mr. Somayaya, two characters: The Wise Lawyers First argued that the provincial law was first effective under the Indian government's law, under the guidance of 1935, that it was undeterred to allow the sale of trade outside the province, according to the Supreme Court, the other debate was that the High Court should allow the sale of products by the Madraz Cora tax law to be sold in order to be sold out of the state where the property was sold out.
The first conflict doesn't seem worthy of our support, Article 1935 of the Indian Government (3)
(1) [1948] FC R1.
Mr. Somaya relied on it and compatible with Article 246(3) of the constitution:
"two pre-integrations of the first two letters, the second Tiffil list has the ability to make laws for a province or any part of it, the provincial parliament has no federal parliament, and no federal parliament."
The entry that belongs to us in the provincial lists is the sale of entry Nox, and it speaks of the product and advertising. The entry does not propose that the sale of a product could be made within a province's borders; and that the order can be passed by 100(3) by a provincial parliament for the province, without any doubt, without a constitutional law that can be passed outside of India, but does not allow any transaction by the State for any other province, and that the government is able to issue a policy on the taxation system.
(1) (1948) F. R.C. (P.) (2) The State of Bombay and the United States of America (india) are limited and other civil appeal in 1952.
The reason for the production of products or products was in the midst of the deal. If the site of business in the province of Madádraz for sale is based on the state of Madádraz, then surely this would be a legal law that cannot be objected to by constitutional grounds.
It is a musey rule that ensures the intention of the law, unites all components of the law, and considers the common purpose of each law and purpose. The caption of the legislation describes it as a law that sells the goods of the product to the sale of Mardádraz province, which is intended to remix and repeat the same terms.
The aim of a sales law set up by the Madres Capitol is to set up a sales force in the province. The Article 2(s) defines it as "broads" and defines it as a meaning, for cash or for delayed money or business purposes, but is transferred to one person by one person or business time for other considerations, however, the closure does not include charging, high officials or commitments."
Of course, the product of the sale of property in this definition is under pressure and none else. The language does not indicate the popular money for sale where, according to high court, it was used.
"Even despite the sale of Indian products, against the 1930s, any product that was sold or purchased in the province will be considered to be sold or purchased - wherever the deal can be -
(c) If the goods were actually in this province, when the sale or purchase agreement was made, or
(() If the deal was for sale or purchase of future goods by description, then if the goods were actually produced after the contract was actually sold or purchased."
It will be clear from this point of view that these transactions are not considered to be a product of the parliament under definition, but in a legal conflict by them
It was announced that despite the laws against the sale of products, it was estimated that it would be applied, otherwise. The explanation also shows that the article "Constituted a sale in the state of Madádra province" and that these words were not intended to be repeated because of the law and the proposal for the law and the title of the law. The article is also defined in the Department of Charge of Law, and it is defined as "the overall tax money" for selling or selling of a certain product.
In our opinion, it is not only due to the signing of the contract for sales within the Madádraz province, which was recognized within the other provinces, where the property of the product was accepted, in the state of Madádraz, a sales law that does not allow this kind of tax to be imposed by the law and under the law. A product deal that was sold under the law would be sold under law only if the product was sold at a price of property agreement, if it was actually sold by the law, but by the law of the state, we are not sure it would be in accorded with the law by the law that requires that the company to sell the owners of the former tax, which was approved by the company would be approved by the company.
In our opinion, we should permit the appeal and cancel the conviction given by the court below, fines and sells if paid, if the appealer is indeed to return.
The appeal is approved.
The appealer's agent: MSK.Aunger.
Agents for the North,
The Union of India and Punjab, the Mireshwar, the Central Province and Travvanco (GH Raj is the head of the state of India).
Agent of the Bihar kingdom: and C.E. Palace.
UP State Agent: CP red.
Agent of intervention: Raandor Narain.
---
For the limited use of the local language and the succinct verdict, it cannot be used in the mother's language and in any other purpose, in all practical and public purposes, the English version of the verdict will be published and applied for effective and effective purposes.
