Buckingham and Carnatic Co., Ltd.
vs.
The staff at Buckingham Palace are:
Carnatic Computer Ltd.
[Justices, Mehar Chand, Mahajan, and Babawati]
Indian Factories Act (XXV of 1934), S. 1949-B - Industrial Disputes Act (XIV of 1947), Section 2 (q) - Employees striking for work for several hours by concerted action - whether "strike" - continuation of service, whether interrupted - loss of right to leave with pay.
Whereas on a particular day the night shift workers of a section of a textile mill stopped work at 4 pm till about 8 pm, the ostensible reason for the strike is that the management of the mills expressed their inability to comply with the request of the workers to declare the morning of that day as a solar eclipse holiday and it was found that the stoppage of work was the result of concerted action:
(i) The stoppage of work falls within the definition of "strike" under Section 2 (q) of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947.
(ii) that the strike was an unlawful strike because the textile mills were a public utility industry and no notice was given to the management, although the refusal to work continued for only a few hours; and
(iii) The continuation of the service of the workers has been hindered due to this unfair trial and they are not entitled to claim leave with pay under Section 49-B (1) of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947.
Civil Appeal: Civil Appeal No. 89 of 1952. Appeals arising out of the Award made by the Second Industrial Tribunal, Malaysia, 1950 (published in the Fort Stanislaus Gazette, Malaysia, on October 3, 1950) by special leave from the Judgment of the Labour Appellate Tribunal of India, Calcutta, in Appeals Nos. 94 and 142, dated June 27, 1951.
Mr. Chapman (S. N. Mukherjee, with him) for the appellant.
SCC Antony Pillai (chair, Manchester Labour Union) for the respondent.
1952-12-28 Verdict of the court: Mahajan is the judge.
Justice Mahajan, Manipuri. - This is an appeal by special leave from the Judgment of the Labour Appellate Tribunal of India, Appeal Nos. 94 and 142, dated the 27th June, 1950, in Calcutta, arising out of the Award of the Second Industrial Tribunal, Malaysia.
The relevant facts and circumstances which give rise to the appeal are as follows: On November 1, 1948, 859 night shift workers of the Caring and Spinning Department of the Carnatic Mills struck work, some at 4 pm, some at 5.30 pm and some at 8 pm. The break in both sections ended at 10 pm. By 10 pm, the strike was completely over. The ostensible reason for the strike was the inability of the management of the mill to accept the request of the workers to declare the dawn of December 1, 1948, as a solar eclipse holiday. On November 3, 1948, the management gave a notice that the stoppage of work on November 1 was an unlawful strike and that the employees, who had participated in the said strike, were not entitled to leave with pay as provided by law. The Malaysian Labour Union did not accept this position. The Government of Malaysia, by an order dated December 11, 1949, made under Section 10 (1) (c) of the Industrial Disputes Act (XIV of 1947), referred this dispute, along with some other disputes, to the Industrial Tribunal at Malaysia. The judge granted the award which was published in the Gazette on October 12, 1950. By his award, the judge found that there could be little doubt that the strike by the night shift workers on November 1, 1949, was an unlawful Strike, since the textile industry was notified as a public utility industry and no legal Strike could take place unless proper notice was given on the terms and conditions prescribed by the Indian Civil Law. No such notice was given. In view of these findings, he supported the view of the management that the continuance of the service of the workers had broken down due to the unlawful Strike and, as  a result, the workers who participated in such a Strike weren't entitled to annual leave with pay under Section 49-B (1) of the Factories Act. However, he considered that the deprivation of leave with pay ordered by the management was a severe punishment and that he had the power to verify the management's exercise of discretion in awarding the punishment on the assumption that the punishment was severe, he reduced the punishment by 50 percent and claimed that the workers would be deprived of only half their leave with pay. The decision of the administration differed on this score.
The mill and the union appealed this decision to the Labour Appeal Tribunal. That tribunal, upheld Mill's argument that the judge did not have the power under section 49-B (1) to intervene and amend the discretion exercised by it. It also upheld the union's claim that what happened on the night of November 1 was not a strike and did not cause any interruption to the workers'services. What the tribunal said was-
"It would be unreasonable to treat an unauthorized absence from work for half an hour or less of the workday as an interruption of service by a worker for the purposes of this section. Assume that in the circumstances of the case, a stoppage of work for a period of about 2 to 4 hours would not be considered a strike, so that there is a break in the continuity of service by the worker concerned."
Consequently, the union's appeal in the matter was allowed and it was ordered that the holidays at full rate as per the Factories Act, 1949-A, were to be counted in respect of the operatives concerned who had ceased to work on November 1, 1948 and there was no break in the continuity of their services.
In this appeal it was argued on behalf of the mill that the management was correct in its decision regarding the proper construction of Section 49-B (1) of the Factories Act (XXV of 1934) that the continuity of service was broken due to the unlawful strike and that the workers were not entitled to annual leave with pay under the said section, as they could not complete the period of 12 months of continuous service in the factory, and that the unauthorised absence from work for a period ranging from 2 to 4 hours resulted in it being an unlawful strike and the consequent disruption of service of a worker for the purposes of Section 1949-B.
Failed grammar. 29:30.
In our judgment, this contention is well founded. Section 49-B provides-
"Every worker who has completed a period of 12 months or more of continuous service in a factory shall be allowed, for the next 12 months, ten consecutive days of leave, or, if a child, fourteen consecutive days, including the days, if any, he is entitled to leave under sub-section (1) of section 35.
Explanation. -A worker shall be deemed to have completed twelve months of continuous service in a factory in spite of any interruption in service during such 12 months not exceeding ninety days in total due to illness, accident or sanctioned leave or all three or by a lockout, a strike which is not an unlawful strike, or not more than thirty days of involuntary unemployment...
It is clear that the benefit of this section does not extend to disruption of services on account of an unlawful strike. Section 2 (q) of the Industrial Disputes Act (Act XIV of 1947) defines the term "strike" as follows:
"Any combination of persons employed in any industry working for any number of people in a company, or attempting to work for, or under a common understanding, any number of persons who have been so appointed to continue working or to take up employment."
In the evidence and circumstances of the case, the judge found that the concerted efforts of the workers were behind their refusal to stop work and resume work on the night of November 1. He observed that the fact that a large number of leave applications had been submitted for various reasons pointed to concerted action, and the application made by the workers and their representatives also indicated that they had worked in unison on both the strike and the refusal to leave on the grounds that they were entitled to leave during the night shift whenever the workers on the day shift were granted half-day leave. He also stated that the refusal of the workers to resume work despite the efforts made by the officials and their own members of the Malaysian Workers' Union indicated that they were not prepared to resume work until their demands were met.
In our opinion, the conclusion reached by the judge was clearly correct and the conclusion that the workers were working in unison could not be avoided. Therefore, the actions of the workers on the night of November 1 clearly fell within the definition of the expression "strike" in section 2 (q) of the Industrial Disputes Act. But we cannot but appreciate the opinion expressed by the appellate tribunal that a stoppage of work for two to four hours and such unauthorized absence could not be construed as a strike. The only point raised by the union before the judge was that it was a spontaneous and unprovoked strike but it was not stated by them that the stoppage did not fall within the meaning of "strike" given in the Act. It cannot be disputed that in the mills the work was stopped by persons employed in a company and they were working in unity and their refusal to return to work was concerted. Therefore, all the essential elements of the definition exist in the present case and the stoppage of works on November 1, 1949, amounts to a break. It was not a case of failure on the part of an individual worker. It was a concerted action of a large number of workers. The appellate tribunal was thus wrong in not treating it as a trial and there was no discretion in the law not to treat a trial as amounting to a trial. If it cannot be argued that the stopping of work on November 1, 1948, was a strike, it must have been an unlawful strike because no notice was given to the management, the mills being a public utility industry.
The President of the Union, in this case, argued on behalf of the workers that there was no application of the Factories Act in this case because the Buckingham and Canning Mills were exempted from the provisions of Chapter IV-A of this Act by a notification of the Government of Massachusetts dated August 23, 1946, and the provisions of Sections 49-A and 49-B were therefore not attracted to it and no substantial question of law with respect to the construction of the section would be decided by this Court and therefore this Court should not entertain this appeal under Article 136 of the Constitution. This contention has no validity. The mills were also exempt from the requirements of Chapter II of this Act as their holiday rules were in accordance with the provisions of chapter II-A of the Factors Act. As these rules are on the same footing, the decision in the matter depends on the construction of these rules and involves an important question of law.
This was later reliant upon in Section 49A of the Factories Act which provided that the provisions of the new Act would not operate contrary to any of the rights which the workers were entitled to under the earlier rules and it was argued that under the leave rules the mills which were in vogue before the Factories Act came into force, the workers were entitlement to a privileged leave and there was no provision in the rules which were similar to Section 49-B or the rules framed in the new rules and the mills had no right to deprive them of leave on account of a strike. This contention cannot be sustained as Section 49-A (2) of the Factors Act has no application in the case of the Carnatic Mills in terms of the notification dated August 23, 1946.
In conclusion, there was no concerted action on the part of the workers who struck down the work on November 1, 1948, and a number of workers sought leave in their own capacity on that date. In our opinion, this contention cannot be taken seriously in view of the detailed facts and circumstances of the award made by the judge. We agree, in the light of the facts accepted by the judge, that the action taken by the 859 workers on the night of November 2, 1948, fell within the definition of the word "strike" given in Section 2 (q) of the Industrial Disputes Act, and that it was an unlawful strike and that the workers thus lost the benefit of leave which they would otherwise have received under the rules.
The learned counsel for the appellant had promised on behalf of the management that it would condone the default of the ETA workers on November 1, 1948 and their stoppage of work on that night would not be considered as a deprivation of leave under the rules and we appreciate the spirit in which the initiative was given and hope that the workers would also accept it in that spirit.
The result is that the appeal is allowed, and the Labour Appeal Tribunal's decision on this matter is set aside. In this case we are not ordering costs.
The appeal has been allowed.
Agent of the complainant: Vera.
The judgment translated into the local language is limited in use and understanding by the litigant in the local language and cannot be used for any other purpose. For all practical and official purposes, the English version of the judgment shall be authentic and shall be applicable for the purposes of operation and enforcement.
