1 SCR Supreme Court Report 709
Messrs. Anwar Khan Mehboob Co.
Vs
The State of Bombay
(now Maharashtra) and other
(S. K. Das, M: Hidayatullah, K. C. Das Gupta, J. C. Shah and N. Rajagopala Ayyanagar Justices)
Purchase tax - tax levied on goods not specifically mentioned as taxable if "all goods other than specified goods" falls under the general description - conversion of one good into another commercially differentiated good - if cost - place of purchase for tax purposes - Constitution of India, 19 (f) & (g), 286 - Bombay Sales Tax Act, 1953 (Bombay). Act III of 1953), Section 10, Schedule B, Entry 80.
The petitioner company was carrying on the business of beedi manufacturing and making certain purchases of tobacco in the State of Bombay, having its head office at Jabalpur in the State of Madhya Pradesh.The Sales Tax Officer assessed the petitioner as a purchase tax under the provisions of the Bombay Sales Tax Act, 1953. The petitioner objected to the assessment
The purchase tax was made on the ground that those transactions and purchases were "outside the State of Bombay" within the meaning of Article 286 (1) (a) of the Constitution, read with the Explanation, that the provisions of the Bombay Sales Tax Act, 1953 did not authorise any purchase duty, levy or collection on the transactions concerned and that the transactions took place during inter-State trade and commerce. The petitioner's appeal to the Assistant Collector of Sales Tax was dismissed and thereafter the present application for a direction of the High Court and writ of certiorari was filed in the Supreme Court. The petitioner contended that the Bombay Sales Tax Act, 1953, did not authorise the imposition of tax on the purchase of bidi-tobacco which was not one of the goods specified in column 4 of Schedule B to the Act referred to earlier. The petitioner further contended that the tobacco purchased was supplied within the State of Bombay as a direct result of the purchase but it was intended to be sent to the State of Madhya Pradesh for making bidi at that place. The only process that was carried out in the State of Bombay was to remove the stems and dust from the tobacco, which does not amount to "consumption" of tobacco as contemplated under the interpretation of Article 286 of the Constitution nor does it convert the tobacco sent to the head office into a product "commercially different" from the tobacco purchased from the growers. The affidavit stated that the raw tobacco was converted into bidi leaves, both of which were commercially different goods and which also had different market values, before being sent outside the State of Bombay. These averments were not disputed by the petitioner.
DECISION: The words "all goods other than those specified in Schedule A and the preceding entries from time to time" in Entry 80 of Schedule B to the Bombay Sales Tax Act, 1953, amount to a specification of goods for the purposes of S. Section 10 Since the bidi tobacco purchased by the applicant was not within Schedule A or any of the preceding entries in Schedule B was chargeable to the rate mentioned in Entry 80 in respect of the purchase tax as described in Section 10 of the Act.
Whenever a commodity was used in such a manner as to convert it into any other commercial commodity, the use of the first commodity was within the meaning of the interpretation of Article 286 of the Constitution.
State of Travancore-Cochin v. Shanmugha Vilas Cashew Nut Factory, (1954) SCR 53, followed.
The distribution of tobacco in the State of Bombay for conversion into bidi strips which is commercially a different product amounts to distribution for the purpose of consumption and the purchase falls within the meaning of Article 286 (1) (a) of the Constitution and took place within the State of Bombay.
1 SCR Supreme Court Report 711
Basic field: Application No. 125 of 1958.
Application under Article 32 of the Constitution of India for enforcement of Fundamental Rights.
G. S. Pathak, A. P. Sen and J. B. Dadachanji for the petitioners.
The respondents were H. J. Umrigar and T. M. Sen.
1960.20 September | The judgment of the court was delivered
Justice Dasgupta - Petitioner under Article 32 of the Constitution, a partnership firm which carries on the business of beedi manufacturing and has its head office at Jabalpur within the State of Madhya Pradesh, alleged that his fundamental rights under Articles 19 (1) (f) and (g) of the Constitution have all been infringed by the imposition of an illegal purchase tax on certain purchases of tobacco made in the State of Bombay. It is felt that the Sales Tax Officer, Baroda, has ordered the Petitioner to assess the purchase tax under Section 14 sub-section (6) Bombay Sales Tax Act 1953 [Act III of Bombay 1953]. from the 1st day of April, 1954 to the 29th day of September, 1955. The Petitioner contends that this assessment was illegal because these transactions were purchases "outside the State of Bombay" within the meaning of Article 286 (1) (a) of the Constitution read with the Explanation and that these transactions took place in the course of inter-State trade and commerce within the meaning of Article 286 (2) of the Constitution. The Bombay Sales Tax Act provisions of 1953 were also sought to disallow any purchase duty, levy or collection on any transaction.
It appears that against this assessment order made by the Sales Tax Officer on October 18, 1955, the petitioner submitted an appeal to the Assistant Collector of Sales Tax. This officer has set aside the order of the Sales Tax Officer and imposed a penalty under Section 16 (4). 16 (4) but dismissed the appeal against the tax assessment ordered. The appeal was ordered
712 The Supreme Court Report [1961]
On the 26th of November, 1957.
The present application was filed on August 4, 1958, praying for a writ against the respondents for the nature of mandamus or any other appropriate direction or order - The State of Bombay, the Collector of Sales Tax, Bombay State, the Sales Tax Officer, Baroda and the Assistant Collector of Sales Tax, Northern Division, Range III, Baroda - restraining them from enforcing the provisions of the Bombay Sales Tax Act against the petitioner in respect of the transactions in question, for a writ in the nature of certiorari taken against the petitioner for quashing the proceedings and the order of assessment passed by the Sales Tax Officer and the order of appeal by the Assistant Collector of Sales Tax and for a declaration that the Act does not authorise the imposition, levy or realisation of tax on the transactions concerned.
First the petitioner's contention that the Bombay Sales Tax Act, 1953, does not authorise the imposition of tax on the purchase of bidi-tobacco.The relevant part of Section 10 (1), which provides for levy of purchase duty is contained in these words:
"Purchase tax shall be levied on the turnover of purchase of goods referred to in column 1 of Schedule'B'at the rate, if any, specified against the goods referred to in column 4 of the Schedule referred to earlier.
The contention of the petitioner is that bidi-tobacco which they had purchased was not one of the goods specified in column 4 of the Schedule referred to earlier. In Schedule'B'we find that the first column contains 80 entries. The second column of the Schedule opposite to each of these entries mentions the rate of sales tax levied under this Act. The third column mentions the rate of general sales tax levied under Section 9. In the fourth column, which is the last column, the rate of purchase tax is mentioned. While entries 1 to 79 refer to specific articles, entry 80 before the amendment in 1957 contained the words: - All goods except those specified in Schedule'A'and the preceding entry. "(The Bombay Act is an amendment, of 71.
1 এস.সি.R. Supreme Court Report 713
1958, "and the words section 7A are appended. After the words" Schedule A "). The question is whether these words" all goods other than those specified from time to time in Schedule A and the preceding entries "amount to a specification of goods for the purposes of section 10. On behalf of the applicant, Mr. Pathak stated that the mere mention of the particular goods may amount to a specification and reference of goods in such general language as" all goods other than those specified from time to time in Schedule A and the preceding entries "cannot be referred to before the specification of goods. This argument cannot be accepted by us. While it is true that the reference to the particular goods is a specification for the purposes of section 10. As required by sections 8 and 9 of this Act we do not see any reason to hold that the reference to goods in the ordinary way as" all goods other than those specified in Schedule A from time to time and in the earlier entries of Schedule B "is not a specification. We are of the opinion that entry 80 of Schedule'B'is a specification of goods within the meaning of section 10 and that bidi-tobacco as such purchased by the applicant does not fall within any of the preceding entries in Schedule A or Schedule B, is a purchase tax under section 10. Tax is levied on these purchases at the rate specified in entry 80.
This brings us to the main contention of the petitioner that the purchases were made outside the State of Bombay. The application stated in para 11 states that the purchases shall be deemed to have been made in the State of Madhya Pradesh, where the tobacco was supplied for consumption. At the hearing, however, it was not disputed that the tobacco was supplied within the State of Bombay to the Ranoli branch of the company which made the purchases. The dispatch of the Ranoli branch to the head office of the company at Jabalpur, is not a direct result of the sales.
It is urged, however, that although there was distribution in the State of Bombay, that distribution was not intended for use within the State of Bombay; and, therefore, the interpretation of Article 286 (1) (a) does not apply.
714 The Supreme Court Report [1961]
The Sales Tax authorities have proceeded on the ground that the goods were supplied for the purpose of consumption in the State of Bombay as a direct result of the purchase. Unless that view is proved wrong, the purchase must be presumed to have been made within the State of Bombay, and it would be unnecessary to consider the larger question whether the State of Bombay is liable to tax even if the interpretation does not apply.
The specific case made by the petitioner is that the tobacco purchased is supplied within the state of Bombay as a direct result of the purchase. A further question that has arisen is whether such distribution was intended for use in the state of Bombay. It was argued by the petitioner that, after the tobacco was supplied, the distribution in the state of Madhya Pradesh was for the purpose of making beedi at that place. For tobacco purchased in the state of Bombay, what was done was to remove the stems and dust from the tobacco. It is called for the removal of waste materials such as stems and soil, not the amount of tobacco consumed. It is also stated that the tobacco that is sent to the head office after the waste material is removed is not "commercially different" from the tobacco purchased from the growers. The respondents stated in the counter-affidavit that, "After the petitioners have indicated the back of the raw tobacco from the growers of the state of Bombay, the process of conversion of the raw tobacco thus purchased into beedi leaves for immediate use in the production of beedi takes place. That the marketable value of the raw tobacco and beedi leaves is different and that they are both commercially different things. No further affidavit has been filed by the petitioner based on the statement of the respondents that the raw tobacco is converted into beedi leaves before being sent out of the state of Bombay and that the market price of the raw tobacco and beedi leaves is different. Mr. Pathak also admitted the truthfulness of the statement at the hearing that one can go to the market and buy.
1 SCR Supreme Court Report 715
The item known as raw tobacco or Akho Bhuko and he could go to the market and buy the item known as "beedi patti." This is proof enough that raw tobacco and beedi patti are distinct and different commercial products.
It is in the context of these events that we have to consider the question of whether tobacco was provided for consumption in the state of Bombay. It is unnecessary, and indeed absurd, to attempt to give a complete definition of the word "consumption" as used in the interpretation of Article 286 of the Constitution to answer this question. What people are most familiar with eating occurs when they eat, drink, or smoke. Thus, we speak of eating bread, or fish, or meat, or vegetables, when they eat these foods; we speak of drinking tea or coffee or water or wine, when they drink these things; we speak of consuming cigars or cigarettes or beedis, when they smoke them. As economists have said, the production of wealth is the creation of "utility," consumption is the taking of such benefits of the goods and services produced as to constitute its utility. For each good, there is usually something that is generally considered the ultimate of consumption. In the case of some goods, there may even be more than one type of final consumption. Thus the grapes may eventually be consumed as "fruit; they may also be consumed by drinking wine prepared from grapes." Again, the ultimate of consumption may in some cases be spread over a considerable period of time. Mention may be made for example of books, furniture, paintings. It may even happen that, after a consumer has performed some part of the final act of consumption, another part of the final act of consumption may also be performed by his heir or successor, a transferee, or even by one who has acquired possession by unjust means. But in view of the fact that for every good there is something that may generally be regarded as the final act of consumption, we must not forget that in reaching
The stage at which this ultimate object of consumption takes place is the stage at which the commodity may pass through various stages of production, and for such different stages, one or more intermediate functions of consumption will exist. Thus, the final law of the use of cotton may be regarded as the wearing of the cloth produced from it. But before the cotton becomes wearable clothing, it passes into the hands of various producers, each of whom adds some utility to the product from which it is obtained. First there is the work of ginning; the ginned cotton is woven into the yarn by the spinner; the yarn is woven into the cloth by the weaver; the woven cloth is made into garments worn by the tailor. In each of these stages distinct utilities are created, and what is produced is used at a later stage. It is natural and correct to speak of raw cotton being used in ginning, ginned cotton being used in spinning, spinning yarn being used in weaving, woven cloth being used in the making of clothing. The final product - the worn garment - is ultimately used by men, women, and children as clothing. The absence of any word to limit the meaning of the word "consumption" to the final use The framers of the Constitution had the will to use this word to refer to any kind of user which is generally said to be the use of a particular product.
Going back to the cotton example mentioned above, it would be appropriate to hold that when raw cotton is distributed in State A, it is distributed for use in State A; when raw cotton is distributed in State B, it is distributed for use in State B; when yarn for weaving is distributed in State C, it is distributed for use in State C; when cloth woven for wearing by tailors in that State is distributed in State D, cloth is distributed for use in State D; and finally when clothing is distributed for sale as clothing in State C.
1 SCR Supreme Court Report 717
In that State,'e'" apparel worn for use in the State is distributed. Except in the final stage of use which is the use of the finished article as apparel, it may be observed that at every stage of production an object different from the commercial article obtained by the producers is brought into existence. The transformation of a product into a different commercial product by subjecting it to some processing, use within the meaning of the interpretation of Article 286. No less than the final act of the user when no distinct product is being brought into existence but what was brought into existence is being used. What Mr. Pathak seemed to emphasize at this stage of the argument was that the substance of the thing must be destroyed before the thing is mentioned as having been used. This does not lead us anywhere, for we still have to find out what it means to destroy the substance. It may be said that when a product is commercially transformed into a different product its former identity is destroyed and so is the destruction of the substance, as the wise counsel says. We think it unnecessary to enter into a discussion as to what the amount of "destruction" is without even deciding, whether the destruction was or was not. We think it right and reasonable to say that whenever a product is dealt with in such a way as to alter it. Another commercial product is the use of the first product within the meaning of the interpretation of Art. 286. Which is included in the interpretation of Art. 286. In Travancore-Cochin v. Shanmugha Vilas Cashew Nut Factory (1) 113 p. from Report.
Raw cashew nuts were bought there. Discussing the question whether the distribution of these nuts in Travancore was intended for consumption in that State, Justice Das observed:
"After the raw cashew nuts reach the respondents, a process is put through and new trade items, such as cashew nut oil and edible cashew nut shells are obtained. It is then said,
[1954] SCR 53.
718 The Supreme Court Reports [1961]
Therefore, the respondents will eat raw cashew nuts in the sense that I have mentioned. "
Justice Das here proceeds from the view that the use of a commodity to make it into a different commercial good, within the meaning of the interpretation of Article 286 (1) (a), amounts to consumption. As stated in report p. 110. We are not aware of any case where such use of a commodity has been held not to amount to consumption.
It must therefore be held on the basis of this case information that when the tobacco was supplied to the State of Bombay for the purpose of converting it into a commercially different article, as the case may be, the distribution of bidi patti was for the purpose of consumption.The purchases in this case therefore fall within the meaning of the interpretation of Article 286 (1) (a) and must be presumed to have taken place within the State of Bombay.
This objection remains for consideration that the transactions took place in the course of inter-State trade or commerce within the meaning of Article 286 (2) of the Constitution and therefore the imposition of duty was prohibited by its provisions. While these transactions were in respect of inter-State trade, the impediment of Article 286 (2) of the Constitution has been removed by the Validity of Sales Tax Rules Act for the entire period up to September 6, 1955. The duty would be invalid from September 7, 1955 to September 29, 1955 if these transactions took place in the course of inter-State trade. The counsel for the petitioner, however, informed us that he did not seek a decision on his question and, in this case, would not press his objection under Article 286 (2). It is therefore unnecessary for us to decide whether these transactions took place in the course of inter-State trade or commerce within the meaning of Article 286 (2) of the Constitution. Since the petitioner failed to prove any violation of his fundamental rights, the application is dismissed with costs.
The petition was rejected.
. "
