1 SCR Supreme Court Report 453
the Rajputana Mining Agency Limited;
Vs
Union of India and others.
(S. K. Das, M. Hidayathullah, K. C. Das Gupta, I. C. Shah and N. Ramagopalan Ayanagar, judges)
Income Tax Act - Indian Income Tax Act, 1922 (II of 1922 ) 'B' is amended by the Indian Income Tax (Amendment) Act (25 of 1953) 14 (2) (C) - Income tax in part of states - Applicability clause.
The appellant, a private limited company, was incorporated in 1954 in the erstwhile Kakatiya state which was merged with the United States of Rajasthan in 1949. The state of Rajasthan became the state of Rajasthan, a 'B'-state. The Indian Finance Act, 1950, made the Indian Income-tax Act, 1922, applicable to the 'B-part States' with effect from April 1, 1950, thereby making Rajasthan a taxable territory. The Income-tax (Amendment) Act, 1953, was amended. The income-tax authority then sought to impose a tax on the profits and income of the appellant for the assessment year, who claimed an exemption under Section 14 (2) (c) of the Indian In-Tax (Act), 1922, as it existed before the amendment in 1953. The decision for this argument was whether the argument was still open to the appellant in view of the decision of this Court in Madan Gopal's case that the amendment was effective from April 1, 1949, and whether the income earned before April 1, 1949 would still be exempt, even though the exemption had been withdrawn only from April 2, 1949.
Decision: Withdrawal of exemption in the assessment year 1950-51 has adversely affected the income of 1949-50 of the previous year. The application of the Indian Income Tax Act made Rajasthan a taxable territory subject to the Indian income tax laws, and Parliament was able to enact a new law for the territory, just as it did for the whole of India.
Section 1 4 (2) (C) is introduced in the amendment. 1949-50 The exemption in respect of liability to tax on income for the year disappears as if it had never been given and the exemption is deleted. The whole intention and intention of the amendment was to arrive at this result from the assessment year 1950-51, and there can be no repeal. The argument assumes the premise that the Income-tax Act was incorporated in the Indian Finance Bill, 1949, but there is no precedent for the idea, or for the assumption, that when one Act applies to another law in a territory, the latter must be incorporated into the former. It may also be otherwise, if there is a wording which shows that the former law is regarded to have been re-enacted by the new law.
454 The Supreme Court Report [1961]
Union of India v. Gopal Kabra, 1954 SCR 541, is cited.
Civil Appellate Jurisdiction Civil Appeal No. 26 of 1956
Part 76 of 1951Write Petition for Appeal against the High Court Judgment dated 22nd April, 1954 and order made.
N. C. Chatterjee, B. B. Dahadanji and M. S. K. Iyengar for the petitioners.
K. N. Ramasamy and D. Gupta for the respondent.
August 31, 1960. The judgment of the court was delivered by Justice Hidayatullah - it is an appeal with special leave of this court against the judgment of the Rajasthan High Court dated April 22, 1954.
The appellant is a private limited company, incorporated in 1945 in the erstwhile Kota state. The income tax authorities sought to tax its profits and income for the 1950-51 assessment year in relation to the previous year, 1949-50. The appellant claimed exemption under Section 4 (2) (c) of the Indian Income Tax Act, 1922, as it existed prior to the 1953 amendment, claiming that the exemption was applicable even after the amendment. This claim was rejected by the High Court, which was raised under Article 226 of the Constitution. Hence this petition.
Before the unification of the States of Kohat and Rajasthan with the United States of India in 1949, no income tax law was in force in the States of Johor and Bundi. Before the formation of the Indian state of Rajasthan, no such law existed in any part of the state except the state of Bihar. The Indian Finance Act of 1950 made the Indian Income Tax Act, 1922, applicable to the whole of India except the State of Jammu and Kashmir and did not modify the Indian income tax act. Rajasthan became a taxable territory with effect from 1st April 1950.
For the assessment year 1950-51, an attempt was made to impose income tax in the state of Rajasthan.
1 SCR Supreme Court Report 455
Manan Gopal Kabra moved to the High Court under Article 226 of the Constitution to restrain the tax authorities from claiming tax for the period prior to April 1, 1950, contending that since Rajasthan was not a taxable territory before April 1, 1949, no tax could be claimed for the period previous to that date. This Court in an appeal by the Department against the decision of the Rajasthan High Court, which accepted the argument, held that tax was leviable. It is not necessary to give details of the decision on that occasion. The judgment of this Court is published in The Union of India v. Manan Gopa Kabra (1).
The appellants and fourteen others present appealed under Article 226 of the Constitution, claiming new ground by way of a subsequent amendment. Their argument was that Section 4 (2) (c) was exempted by the Indian Income-tax Act on April 1, 1950, and that the exemption was not affected by the amendment of the provision referred to earlier in 1953, although the amendment was retroactive from April 1, 1950 unless the Finance Bill, 1950, which applied the Income-tax Bill in this case, was amended. This contention was not accepted by the High Court which dismissed the appeal under Article 236, holding, inter alia, that the same had been decided by this Court against Mr. Gopal Kabra.
In this appeal, only this point has been disputed, and it has been argued that this issue is still open for decision. Section 4 (2) (c), which was there before the 1953 amendment, reads as follows;
"Taxes shall not be payable by a taxpayer--
(c) in respect of any income, profit or gain accruing or arising to him within the meaning of Part B, unless such income or profit was received on behalf of the taxpayer in the previous year or brought into the taxable area, or is not assessable under section 12B or section 43.
The amendment states that:
"In section 4 of the Principal Act, in clause (c) of sub-section (2), for the word 'B' in the List, it is stated:
'(1) [1954] SCR 541.
456 The Supreme Court Report [1961]
The words 'the state of Jammu and Kashmir' shall be substituted and shall be regarded as having been substituted with effect from the 1st day of April, 1950. Kabra's case (1) This Court describes the result of this amendment as follows:
It may be mentioned here that the tax exemption under Section 4 (2) (c) of the Indian Income Tax Act, acquired between the States in Part B. Except in the case of the state of Jammu and Kashmir, by way of amendment of that provision with effect from the first day of April, 1950.
Mr. N.C. Chatterjee, appearing for the appellant, contended that the matter could not be considered to have been conclusively decided and that the remark was only a descriptive description of what Parliament intended to do. He continued that the matter should be considered and should be reconsidered. In support of his argument, he pleaded that the effect of the passage of the Indian Finance Bill, 1950, and the application of the Indian Income-tax Act to Rajasthan and other Part B States, was to subsume the Indian income-tax Act by relation as such changes and amendments to the Indian Finance Act were then made. No subsequent amendment to the Indian Constitution-Tax Act had any effect on the substantive law incorporated by reference in the Indian Constitution, unless the latter were also suitably amended. Kabra's case (1) which did not find support was raised again in another form. This amendment came into force on 1 April 1950 and the income earned before 1 April 1950 was still exempt, as the exemption was only withdrawn from 1 April 1950.
In our opinion, both arguments have no substance and the position indicated by this Court in the earlier portion, cited earlier, represents the true state of the law. Firstly, an exemption is granted in respect of tax liability in any year of assessment and an exemption is given in respect of income from the previous year in the assessment year 1950-51. For the same reason, the withdrawal of an exemption in the year 1949-51 has adversely affected the income of the previous year, which is the subject matter of this case.
SCR Supreme Court Report 457
The latter argument gives a wrong impression of the nature of the Indian Finance Act, 1949. By that Act, the Indian Income-tax Act was applied, but the Indian income-tax act was not incorporated by relation into the Indian Finance Bill. The application of the Indian In-tax-Act made Rajasthan a taxable territory subject to the Indian Inf-Tax Act, and Parliament was competent to make a new law for the territory, just as it did for the whole of India. The exemption raised by the amendment disappeared as if it had never been given, and if there was no repeal, the amendment must serve to eliminate the exemption. In fact, the whole intention and intention of the amendment was to arrive at this result from the assessment year 1950-51, and there can be no repeal. The argument assumes the premise that the Income-tax Bill was incorporated in the Indian Constitution, 1949, but there is no precedent or presumption for the notion that when one law applies another law to a territory, the latter must be incorporated into the former. It may also be otherwise, if there is a wording which shows that the former law is deemed to have been re-enacted by the new law. The Indian Finance Bill, 1949, in this case, was concerned with the application of the India-income-tax Act, which it amends the definition of 'taxable territory' in the Indian Inl-income- tax Act, and applies that law to this territory. Thereafter, the Indian Parliament may retroactively amend the Income- tax Bill, and the amendment shall also apply to the new taxable territory. In our opinion, neither argument is valid.
The appeal was unsuccessful and will be dismissed with costs.
The appeal was turned down.
. "
